ACT V

SCENE I. A CHURCHYARD.

ENTER TWO CLOWNS WITH SPADES, &C.

FIRST CLOWN. so, she’s gonna get a proper christian burial even though she lowkey was on that self-salvation grind?

SECOND CLOWN. i’m telling you, she is – so we’re setting her grave straight up. the boss dude, the crowner, already sat on her case and declared it proper christian burial.

FIRST CLOWN. like, how’s that even happen unless she drowned herself while tryna defend her own self?

SECOND CLOWN. exactly, that’s the tea.

FIRST CLOWN. it’s gotta be se offendendo – no other way, right? here’s the 411: if i drown myself on purpose, that’s an act, and acts come in three moves – to act, to do, to perform; bottom line, she straight-up drowned herself on purpose.

SECOND CLOWN. nah, hold up, goodman delver—

FIRST CLOWN. give me a sec. here’s the water – all good. here’s the dude – also good. if the dude goes to the water and drowns on his own, then boom, that’s on him. but if the water comes at him and drowns him, then he didn’t kill himself. basically, if you’re not the one actively ending your game, you ain’t shortening your own run.

SECOND CLOWN. but is that even legit law?

FIRST CLOWN. ay, for real, it’s crowner’s quest law.

SECOND CLOWN. real talk – if this weren’t a gentlewoman, she wouldn’t even get a proper christian burial.

FIRST CLOWN. exactly, and it’s extra sus that the high rollers can go off and drown or hang themselves more than their so-called christian crew. come on, my spade – there ain’t no OG gentlemen except for gardeners, ditchers, and grave-makers; they’re the ones keeping adam’s hustle alive.

SECOND CLOWN. was adam even considered a gentleman?

FIRST CLOWN. he was the very first dude to ever rock arms.

SECOND CLOWN. wait, but he had none, right?

FIRST CLOWN. lmao, are you serious? how do you even read scripture? it says adam dug – like, how could he dig with no arms? i’m gonna hit you with another question; if you can’t keep up, just confess, bro—

SECOND CLOWN. go on.

FIRST CLOWN. who out-builds a mason, a shipwright, or a carpenter?

SECOND CLOWN. the gallows-maker, ‘cause that frame lasts longer than a thousand tenants.

FIRST CLOWN. mad props for that wit – the gallows is legit dope. but how exactly is it dope? it works best on those who do bad vibes. and yo, you’re trippin’ sayin’ the gallows is sturdier than the church; honestly, the gallows might just come back to bite you. say it again, come on.

SECOND CLOWN. who builds stronger than a mason, shipwright, or carpenter?

FIRST CLOWN. ay, spit it out, and let’s unyoke this.

SECOND CLOWN. marry, now i can tell.

FIRST CLOWN. say it.

SECOND CLOWN. mass, i cannot tell.

ENTER HAMLET AND HORATIO, AT A DISTANCE.

FIRST CLOWN. yo, stop overthinking it – your dim brain ain’t gonna pick up speed even with beatings; and next time someone asks, just say “grave-maker.” the digs he makes will last ‘til the end of days. now bounce to yaughan and snag me a stiff.

[EXIT SECOND CLOWN.]

[THROWS AND SINGS.]

in my youth when i was mad into love, i legit thought it was hella sweet; back then, everything was on point – time was tight and my needs were high. i truly believed nothing could top that vibe.

HAMLET. does this dude have zero chill about what he’s doin’, that he’s out here singing about grave-making like it’s a banger?

HORATIO. yo, he’s been marinated in that easy lifestyle.

HAMLET. facts – sometimes a life with no major hustle hones the weirdest sense.

FIRST CLOWN. [SINGS.] but age, creepin’ in all sneaky, has clutched me in its grip and shipped me straight into the dirt, as if i’d never even existed.

[THROWS UP A SKULL.]

HAMLET. yo, that skull used to spit bars – it literally had a tongue and could sing! now check it: that rotten mess just gets slammed onto the ground like it’s cain’s jawbone that sparked the first murder! maybe this rough dome was once a politician’s mug – one who lowkey tried to outsmart god, am i right?

HORATIO. could be, my lord.

HAMLET. or maybe it belonged to some courtier who used to be like “good morrow, sweet lord! how’s it goin’, good sir?” maybe this was my lord of such-a-one, who even hyped up his buddy’s ride when he was beggin’ for it – you feel me?

HORATIO. ay, my lord.

HAMLET. no cap, and now my lady worm’s – totally chapless and getting clobbered around the mazard with a sexton’s spade. talk about a wild turnaround – if only we had the clout to peep it properly. did these bones even cost more than just bein’ used as wooden blocks? my brain hurts just thinkin’ on it.

FIRST CLOWN. [SINGS.] a pickaxe and a spade, plus a shrouding-sheet – oh snap, a clay pit built just right for a guest like this.

[THROWS UP ANOTHER SKULL.]

HAMLET. yo, there’s another one. could this be the skull of a lawyer? where are all his witty quips, his briefs, his cases, his tenures, his tricks? why does that rude knave get away with bashin’ him with a dirty shovel and not even get called out for battery? hmm, this dude used to be a major land buyer – with his laws, recognitions, fines, double vouchers, recoveries. so is this the fine of his fines, the recovery of his recoveries – to have his fancy dome all clogged with dirt? will his vouchers still vouch for his deals, double ones too, more than the size of a couple contracts? his whole land deal barely fits in this box – so does that mean the heir ends up with nada, huh?

HORATIO. not a jot more, my lord.

HAMLET. and isn’t parchment made out of sheep-skins?

HORATIO. ay, my lord – and also calf-skins.

HAMLET. they’re literally sheep and calves, all lookin’ for that extra assurance. anyway, i gotta holla at you – whose grave is this, dude?

FIRST CLOWN. mine, sir. [SINGS.] oh, a clay pit built just for a guest like this.

HAMLET. looks like it’s yours, ‘cause you’re literally crashin’ in it.

FIRST CLOWN. nah, you’re just layin’ in it, sir – that ain’t really yours. i don’t even lie in it myself, but it’s still mine.

HAMLET. bro, you are literally in it and claimin’ it as yours. graves are for the dead, not the livin’ – so you’re straight-up lyin’.

FIRST CLOWN. it’s a fast lie, sir – it’ll bounce from me to you in no time.

HAMLET. so, who are you diggin’ it for?

FIRST CLOWN. for no man, sir.

HAMLET. then what about a woman?

FIRST CLOWN. nah, not even a woman.

HAMLET. so, who’s gettin’ buried in here?

FIRST CLOWN. a woman, sir – but rest her soul, she’s dead.

HAMLET. damn, this knave is on another level! we gotta spit straight facts or all this double-talk will mess us up. by the lord, horatio, i’ve clocked these three years – now the age is so curated that even a peasant’s toe comes almost in line with a courtier’s heel, hella irritating. how long you been in the grave-maker game?

FIRST CLOWN. of all the days in a year, i stepped into this gig on the day our last king hamlet clapped fortinbras.

HAMLET. so, how long ago was that?

FIRST CLOWN. can’t you tell? even a basic fool knows – that was the day young hamlet was born, the mad one who got shipped off to england.

HAMLET. ay, for real – why did they send him to england?

FIRST CLOWN. cuz he was off his rocker; they figured he’d get his chill back there – and if not, it’s all good.

HAMLET. why though?

FIRST CLOWN. ‘cause you wouldn’t even notice – down there, everyone’s as mad as he is.

HAMLET. so, how did he even go mad?

FIRST CLOWN. word is, it was super weird.

HAMLET. like, how weirdly weird?

FIRST CLOWN. straight up, he just lost his marbles.

HAMLET. on what grounds?

FIRST CLOWN. dude, here in denmark – i’ve been the sexton since i was a kid, thirty years strong.

HAMLET. so, how long does a man lie in the dirt before he starts rotting?

FIRST CLOWN. real talk, if he ain’t already rotting before he kicks the bucket – these pocky corpses nowadays barely hold together – he’ll last about eight or nine years. a tanner’s corpse? nine years.

HAMLET. why does he last longer than others?

FIRST CLOWN. ‘cause his skin’s so tanned from his trade that it repels water for a long time. plus, your water is a total wrecking ball for a dead body. check this – here’s a skull that’s been chillin’ in the ground for twenty-three years.

HAMLET. whose was that?

FIRST CLOWN. it belonged to some mad, whoreson fellow – who do you think it was?

HAMLET. nah, i got no clue.

FIRST CLOWN. damn, curse that mad rogue! i even had a flagon of rhenish poured on my head once. this skull, sir, was yorick’s skull – the king’s jester.

HAMLET. this?

FIRST CLOWN. even that.

HAMLET. lemme see. [takes the skull.] oh snap, poor yorick. i knew him, horatio – a dude with infinite jokes and insane vibes. he carried me on his back a thousand times; and now, shit, my stomach’s twisted just thinkin’ about it. those lips i used to plant kisses on countless times – where are your epic quips now? your wild antics, your songs, your lit moments that used to turn tables into full-on parties? not one left – totally flatlined. now bounce over to my lady’s chamber and tell her to get her makeup game on, like an inch thick ‘cause this vibe demands it. make her laugh, for real. prithee, horatio, tell me one thing.

HORATIO. what’s that, my lord?

HAMLET. you reckon alexander once rocked this same look on earth?

HORATIO. straight up, my lord.

HAMLET. and even smelled like it? ew, bro!

[THROWS DOWN THE SKULL.]

HORATIO. still, my lord.

HAMLET. so, how far can we repurpose this, horatio? why can’t our imaginations trail alexander’s noble dust until it’s chillin’ in a bung-hole?

HORATIO. that’d be way too extra to really consider.

HAMLET. nah, not even a bit. but think about it – alexander died, got buried, turned to dust; dust is earth; from earth we make loam; so why not use that loam, that recycled vibe, to block a beer-barrel? even imperious caesar, dead and turned to clay, could plug a hole to keep the wind off. oh, that the earth which once had the world shook in awe could fix a wall to kick winter’s mess to the curb. but hold up – aside! here comes the king.

ENTER PRIESTS, &C, IN PROCESSION; THE CORPSE OF OPHELIA, LAERTES AND MOURNERS FOLLOWING; KING, QUEEN, THEIR TRAINS, &C.

the queen, the courtiers. who tf are they following, and why are the rites so messed up? it screams that the corpse they follow lowkey ended it all in a desperate move. it was some serious estate – let’s sit and peep that.

[RETIRING WITH HORATIO.]

LAERTES. what other ceremony is goin’ down?

HAMLET. that’s laertes – one seriously noble dude. peep that.

LAERTES. come on, what other ceremony is on deck?

PRIEST. yo, her send-off has been expanded as far as our papers allow. her death was, like, iffy; and if not for that major command throwin’ down the law, she’d be chillin’ in some unsanctified plot until the final trumpet. for charity, they should’ve tossed shards, flints, and pebbles on her. but nah, she’s gettin’ her virgin rites, her maiden spread, and the full bell-and-burial package.

LAERTES. ain’t there more to do?

PRIEST. nope, nothing more. we’d just be desecratin’ the service if we added more – singin’ a proper requiem and all that chill rest for the departed.

LAERTES. just lay her in the dirt, and let violets spring from her pure, unspoiled flesh. i swear, you clumsy priest, my sister’s gonna be an angel on the low when you’re out there howlin’.

HAMLET. wait, you mean the fair ophelia?

QUEEN. [SCATTERING FLOWERS.] sweets to the sweet. farewell. i was lowkey hopin’ you’d be my hamlet’s wifey; i pictured your bride-bed all decked out, sweet maid, not your grave all strewn with petals.

LAERTES. oh, triple woe – may ten times triple fall on that cursed head whose wicked deed robbed you of your genius. hold the earth off for a bit, ‘til i can scoop her up in my arms again. [LEAPS INTO THE GRAVE.] now, pile that dust on the livin’ and the dead, ‘til you build a flat mountain that towers over old pelion or even the sky-high cap of blue olympus.

HAMLET. [ADVANCING.] yo, who’s this dude whose grief is so on point? whose sorrow talk makes the stars pause like they’re shook? yeah, that’s me – hamlet the dane. [LEAPS INTO THE GRAVE.]

LAERTES. [GRAPPLING WITH HIM.] damn, the devil can snatch your soul, man!

HAMLET. yo, you’re not prayin’ right. take your fingers off my throat; even though i’m not wild and impulsive, i got some serious danger locked inside – so let your savvy mind be warned. get your hand off, now!

KING. pluck them asunder.

QUEEN. hamlet! hamlet!

ALL. gentlemen!

HORATIO. good my lord, chill out.

[THE ATTENDANTS PART THEM, AND THEY COME OUT OF THE GRAVE.]

HAMLET. yo, i’ll throw down on this theme until my eyelids literally can’t wiggle no more.

QUEEN. oh my son, what’s your deal?

HAMLET. i loved ophelia; not even forty thousand bros with all their love could add up to my vibe. so, what you gonna do for her?

KING. oh, he’s totally off his rocker, laertes.

QUEEN. for god’s sake, hold him back!

HAMLET. swounds, show me what you’re gonna do: you gonna cry? gonna scrap? gonna fast? gonna tear yourself apart? gonna drink up eisel? even eat a crocodile? i’m down for it. are you here just to whine? to try and flex by jumpin’ in her grave? get buried quick with her, and i’ll do the same. and if you start yappin’ about mountains, let 'em chuck millions of acres on us, ‘til our ground, singeing his dome against the burn zone, makes ossa look like a wart. nah, and if you just mouth off, i’ll rant just as hard as you.

QUEEN. this is pure madness – the fit will work on him for a while; soon enough, as patient as a dove when her golden couplets drop, his silence will start saggin’.

HAMLET. hear me, sir; why you usin’ me like this? i’ve always had love for you. but it don’t even matter – let hercules do his thing, the cat will mew, and the dog will have his day.

[EXIT.]

KING. i pray thee, good horatio, watch over him.

[EXIT HORATIO.]

[TO LAERTES] chill your patience on our last night’s chat; we’re about to make our move. – good gertrude, keep an eye on your son. this grave is gonna be a livin’ monument. in an hour, we’ll see some quiet – till then, we play it patient.

[EXEUNT.]

SCENE ii. a hall in the castle.

ENTER HAMLET AND HORATIO.

HAMLET. that's a wrap on that, sir. now let me peep the other scene; you remember every deet, right?

HORATIO. i remember it, my lord!

HAMLET. dude, in my heart there was this wild fight that kept me up all night. i felt like i was trapped in a mess worse than a full-on mutiny in a jail cell. i was hella rash – and honestly, i kinda wish that rashness was celebrated, ‘cause sometimes our impulsive moves come through when our deep plots start to fade; and that reminds us there’s some cosmic force shaping our ends, no matter how rough we carve ‘em.

HORATIO. that’s totally on point.

HAMLET. up from my crib, my sea-gown all draped around me, in the dark i was feeling my way like a total noob, yeeting myself through the gloom to peep their deets; my desire was on fleek, so i slid my fingers over their packet and then dipped back to my own zone—forgetting basic etiquette in a major flex to crack open their epic commission; and there i found, horatio, oh legit royal trickery! an exact command loaded with a whole buffet of reasons, boosting denmark’s vibe and england’s too, with so many bugs and goblins in my life feed that while i was on duty, not even a chill moment was spared—no cap, i almost got my head yeeted off.

HORATIO. is it even possible, bro?

HAMLET. here’s the commission, read it when you got a minute; but yo, you down to hear how i rolled?

HORATIO. i’m all ears, fr fr.

HAMLET. so, being circled by a bunch of lowkey villains—or i could’ve dropped a preamble in my brain—the show had already begun; i sat down, whipped up a fresh commission, and kept it lit: i used to hold it like our statists do, grinding hard to scribble that messy learning away, but, sir, now it did me major service. wanna peep the flex of what i wrote?

HORATIO. bet, my lord.

HAMLET. it was a straight-up oath from the king, where england was his ride-or-die, with love between them growing like a dope palm and peace still rocking her golden wheat crown as the chill comma between their vibes, plus a ton of high-key clauses, so that if anyone peeped the deets, the squad carrying it would get suddenly yeeted, with no time for confession.

HORATIO. how’d you seal that down, bro?

HAMLET. yo, it was hella divinely ordered. i had my old pops’ signet in my stash—basically the blueprint for the danish seal—so i folded the writ just like the OG, signed it, stamped it legit, and stashed it safely; the switch-up went totally unnoticed. then the next day our sea-fight went down, and you already know the tea that followed.

HORATIO. so guildenstern and rosencrantz are in the game.

HAMLET. dude, they were totally vibing with this hustle. they’re nowhere near my vibe—their own shady plays just boost down their downfall. it’s hella dangerous when lowlife energy slides between slick moves and savage oppositions.

HORATIO. damn, what a king, huh?

HAMLET. doesn’t it, in your opinion, totally push me to yeet him—this dude who offed my king and dissed my mom, popping in between the royal picks and my major hopes, screwing up his own angle for my rightful life, and with all that wild con—ain’t my conscience screaming “no cap” to cancel him with this arm? and seriously, isn’t it straight-up damned to let this nasty piece of our nature keep spreading evil?

HORATIO. england’s gonna drop the deets on that real soon, no cap.

HAMLET. it’s gonna be quick; the break is all mine—and a man’s life is just a single “one.” but real talk, i’m mad sorry, good horatio, that when i scoped laertes i forgot myself; cuz his vibe mirrors my own cause. imma court his favor, for sure—the raw intensity of his grief totally turned me into a swooning mess.

HORATIO. yo, chill vibes—who’s rolling up here?

ENTER OSRIC.

OSRIC. your lordship is mad welcome back to denmark.

HAMLET. i humbly thank you, sir. you peep this waterfly?

HORATIO. nah, my good lord.

HAMLET. your vibe is even more chill; it’s lowkey a sin to know him. he’s got mad land—even if a beast ruled beasts, his crib would be at the king’s chill spot; it’s a total chough, but, as i say, his stash is hella spacious in its dirt collection.

OSRIC. sweet lord, if your lordship got a minute, i gotta drop some tea from his majesty.

HAMLET. i’m about to soak it up with all my vibes—put your cap to good use; it’s made for your head.

OSRIC. thanks, your lordship, it’s mad hot.

HAMLET. nah, trust me, it’s super cold—the wind’s all northerly, fam.

OSRIC. it’s kinda cold, my lord, for reals.

HAMLET. i reckon it’s extra sultry and hot for my complexion.

OSRIC. for real, my lord; it’s mad sultry—i can’t even cap how—and, my lord, his majesty sent me to let you know he’s laid a huge wager on your head. sir, here’s the 411—

HAMLET. i beg you, keep that in mind—
[HAMLET MOVES OSRIC TO PUT ON HIS HAT.]

OSRIC. nah, in good faith, for real. sir, fresh on the court is laertes; believe me, he’s an absolute gentleman—loaded with next-level differences, soft society vibes, and major show. straight up, to be real, he’s like the living calendar of the gentry; you’d find in him the entire blueprint of what a gentleman should be.

HAMLET. sir, his drip is clear even to you—though if you tried to tally him up, it’d have your memory doing somersaults, but i ain’t even yawning over it; real talk, i see him as a top-tier soul, dripping with such rare and epic vibes that, honestly, his mirror is just him, nothing extra.

OSRIC. your lordship is spitting straight facts about him.

HAMLET. so, what’s with all the extra hype, sir? why do we bundle this dude in our raw drip?

OSRIC. sir?

HORATIO. can’t you say that in another tongue? you’ll nail it, sir, for real.

HAMLET. what’s the lowkey import of naming this dude?

OSRIC. about laertes?

HORATIO. his wallet’s empty already—his golden talk’s all out.

HAMLET. i mean him, sir.

OSRIC. i know you aren’t clueless,—

HAMLET. i wish you were, sir; but tbh, even if you were, it wouldn’t change much for me. so, sir?

OSRIC. you know full well how dope laertes is,—

HAMLET. i can’t confess that, cuz then i’d be comparing me to him in excellence; but like, to really know a man is to know his own drip.

OSRIC. i mean, sir, about his weapon; and with the cred they’ve piled on him, his meed is unmatched.

HAMLET. so, what weapon is he rocking?

OSRIC. rapier and dagger, my lord.

HAMLET. so that’s a duet of his weapons. but okay.

OSRIC. the king, my lord, has staked six barbary horses on your head—and i reckon he’s countered with six french rapiers and poniards, complete with their accessories like girdles, hangers, and whatnot. plus, three of those carriages are super high-key fancy, ultra responsive on the grip, delicate rides with a ton of free spirit.

HAMLET. so what are you calling the carriages?

HORATIO. i knew you’d get a bonus lesson on that before dropping the deets.

OSRIC. the carriages are the hangers, my lord.

HAMLET. the term would be more german to the deal if we had cannons by our side; i wish it could be hangers until then. anyways—six barbary horses against six french rapiers with their add-ons, and three free-spirited carriages: that’s the french bet against the danish. why is all this loaded up, as you call it?

OSRIC. the king, my lord, has decreed that in a dozen bouts between you and him, you can’t land more than three hits—he’s set the odds at twelve for nine; and it’ll go straight to trial if your lordship gives the answer.

HAMLET. what if i answer “nah”?

OSRIC. i mean, my lord, that’d be a counter move against your own vibe in the bout.

HAMLET. sir, i’m gonna stroll through the hall. if his majesty’s cool with it, it’s basically my time; let the foils be popped, the gentlemen be down, and if the king holds his plan, i’ll secure a win for him if possible; otherwise, i’ll only walk away with shame and a few hits.

OSRIC. should i serve that re-delivery straight up for you?

HAMLET. that’s the move, sir; deploy your flavor however you please.

OSRIC. i do my duty to your lordship, no cap.

HAMLET. yours, yours.

[EXIT OSRIC.]

HAMLET. he handled his own clap-back—no other mouths got a turn.

HORATIO. this lapwing is straight up yeeting away with the shell on its head.

HAMLET. he went along with his dug move before he even fell for it. so, he’s one of many from this trashy age that only caught the current vibe and surface-level flex of meeting up; a sort of bubbly collection riding through all the hyped opinions—and when pushed to the test, their bubbles pop off.

ENTER A LORD.

LORD. my lord, his majesty just dropped a kudos via young osric, letting him know you’re hitting up the hall; he wants to know if you’re down to roll with laertes or if you’ll take longer.

HAMLET. i’m locked in on my goals—they roll with the king’s vibe. if his call is on point, i’m ready. now or whenever, as long as i’m as capable as i am right now.

LORD. the king, queen, and all the crew are rolling in.

HAMLET. in that prime moment.

LORD. the queen wants you to serve some smooth entertainment to laertes before you dive into the play.

HAMLET. she’s schooling me well.

[EXIT LORD.]

HORATIO. my lord, you’re gonna lose this wager, no cap.

HAMLET. i ain’t buying that. since he bounced to france, i’ve been on constant grind. i will beat those odds—though my heart’s feeling hella off, it’s all gravy.

HORATIO. nah, good my lord.

HAMLET. it’s just some straight-up foolery; but it’s like a profit boost that might even trip up a woman.

HORATIO. if your mind’s not cool with something, just trust it. i’ll intercept their trip here and say you’re not down.

HAMLET. not even a bit—we’re straight-up defying omens. there’s some special fate energy in a sparrow’s fall; if it’s meant to drop now, it won’t come later; if it’s not coming, then it’ll be now; and if not now, then it’ll still road-trip in eventually. readiness is everything. since no dude can keep score of what he leaves behind, what’s the harm in leaving early?

ENTER KING, QUEEN, LAERTES, LORDS, OSRIC AND ATTENDANTS WITH FOILS & C.

KING. come, hamlet, come, and snatch this hand from me.

[THE KING PUTS LAERTES’S HAND INTO HAMLET’S.]

HAMLET. yo, pardon me, sir—I did you dirty; but forgive it, ‘cause you’re a stand-up gent. this crowd knows, and word’s out, i’m suffering from some major mental glitch. whatever i did that might’ve jostled your honor and vibe, i hereby confess it was pure madness. did hamlet wrong laertes? nah, never hamlet. if, when off his chill mode, hamlet offends laertes, then that ain’t really hamlet—hamlet denies it. so who did it? his own madness. if that’s the tea, then hamlet’s on the wronged squad; his own crazy is his enemy. sir, right here in front of y’all, let me back off from this planned evil so far in your generous thoughts, as if i just shot my arrow across the crib and hurt my bro.

LAERTES. i’m straight-up satisfied by nature, and this whole sitch should fuel my revenge vibe; but on honor’s terms, i’m keeping it distant until some OG honor masters give me a legit voice and a peace precedent to keep my name clean. but in the meantime, i’m accepting your offered love like true love, and i won’t diss it.

HAMLET. i totally embrace that, and i’m about to throw down in this brother wager—hand over the foils; let’s get to it.

LAERTES. come, give me one.

HAMLET. i’ll be your foil, laertes; in my clueless state, your skills shine like a star in the darkest night, blazing af.

LAERTES. bro, you’re roasting me, sir.

HAMLET. nope, i swear by this hand.

KING. hand over the foils, young osric. cousin hamlet, you catch the wager?

HAMLET. absolutely, my lord. your grace has put the odds on the weaker side.

KING. i ain’t scared. i’ve peeped you both; but since he’s been leveled up, we got odds like that.

LAERTES. this is too heavy, man. lemme see another.

HAMLET. this is lit; these foils, are they all the same length?

OSRIC. ay, my good lord.

KING. set out the wine buckets on that table. if hamlet lands a hit on the first or second bout, or bails on the third exchange, then let all the battlements drop their ordnance fire; the king will toast to hamlet’s better vibes, and we’ll mix up a cup richer than what four straight-up danish kings have rocked. hand me the cups; and let the kettle blare to the trumpet, the trumpet to the cannon dude outside, the cannons to the skies, the skies to the ground—now the king toasts hamlet. come on, let’s kick it off; and you, judges, keep your eyes peeled.

HAMLET. come on, sir.

LAERTES. come on, my lord.

[THEY PLAY.]

HAMLET. one.

LAERTES. no.

HAMLET. judgment.

OSRIC. that’s a hit—a seriously tangible hit.

LAERTES. alright, hit it again.

KING. hold up, pass me a drink. hamlet, this gem is yours; here’s to your health.

[trumpets sound, and cannons blast off inside.]

hand over the cup.

HAMLET. i’m gonna roll in this bout first; set it aside for a bit.

[THEY PLAY.]

HAMLET. come on—hit me again; what do you reckon?

LAERTES. just a light touch, i confess.

KING. our son will win.

QUEEN. he’s kinda extra and outta breath. here, hamlet, take my napkin and wipe your brow—the queen’s toasting to your luck, hamlet.

HAMLET. good madam.

KING. gertrude, don’t drink.

QUEEN. i will, my lord; pardon me, please.

KING. [ASIDE. IT’S THE POISON’D CUP; IT’S TOO LATE.]

HAMLET. i dare not sip it yet, madam—wait a bit.

QUEEN. come on, let me wipe your face.

LAERTES. my lord, i’m gonna hit him now.

KING. i don’t think that’s cool.

LAERTES. [ASIDE. AND YET IT’S LITERALLY AGAINST MY CONSCIENCE.]

HAMLET. come for the third, laertes—don’t stall; i beg you, bring your fiercest game. i’m lowkey worried you’ll clown me.

LAERTES. you say so? come on, let’s do this.

[THEY PLAY.]

OSRIC. nothing happens—either way, it’s a wash.

LAERTES. have at you now.

[LAERTES WOUNDS HAMLET; THEN, DURING THE SCUFFLE, THEY SWAP RAPIERS AND HAMLET WOUNDS LAERTES.]

KING. separate them; they’re mad heated.

HAMLET. nah, come again!

[THE QUEEN FALLS.]

OSRIC. look to the queen, yo!

HORATIO. they’re bleeding on both sides—what’s the haps, my lord?

OSRIC. how’s it going, laertes?

LAERTES. damn, like a woodcock to my own spring, osric—I’m justly undone by my own betrayal.

HAMLET. how’s the queen holding up?

KING. she’s swooning from all that bleeding.

QUEEN. no, no, not the drink, the drink! oh my dear hamlet—the drink, the drink! i’m totally poisoned.

[DIES.]

HAMLET. oh, pure villainy! ho! lock the door—that’s treachery! go on, uncover it.

[LAERTES FALLS.]

LAERTES. it’s all here, hamlet. hamlet, you are slain—no medicine in this world can fix you. you got not even half an hour left; that treacherous weapon in your hand, still raw and envenom’d, is killing you. that foul hustle has backfired on me—here i lie, never gonna rise again. your mom’s been poisoned. i can’t take it anymore—the king, the king’s the one to blame.

HAMLET. the blow’s wicked venomed too! then, venom, go to work.
[STABS THE KING.]

OSRIC and LORDS. treason! treason!

KING. oh, still defend me, friends—I’m just hurt.

HAMLET. here, you incestuous, murderous, damned dane, drink this potion. is your union here? follow my mom.
[KING DIES.]

LAERTES. he’s rightfully served—it’s a poison he cooked up himself. share forgiveness with me, noble hamlet; let my death and my father’s not weigh on you, nor yours on me.
[DIES.]

HAMLET. heaven, set you free from it! i follow you—i am dead, horatio. wretched queen, adieu. you, who look pale and tremble at this chance, as silent spectators to this act—if i had time, as this grim sergeant called death is super strict in his lock, oh, i could spill the tea, but let it be. horatio, i’m dead and you’re still kickin’; please report my tale and my cause accurately to the unsatisfied.

HORATIO. don’t ever believe it—I’m basically more of an antique roman than a dane. here’s still some liquor left.

HAMLET. since you’re a real one, give me the cup. let it go; by heaven, i’ll snag it. oh good horatio, what a wounded legacy—unclear deets will live on past me. if you ever held me in your heart and pulled a moment from felicity—even in this harsh world, breathing pain—then go ahead and tell my story.
[MARCH AFAR OFF, AND SHOT WITHIN.]

what warlike noise is this, tho?

OSRIC. young fortinbras, coming in with conquest from poland, is sending this warlike volley to england’s ambassadors.

HAMLET. oh, i’m dying, horatio—this potent poison is totally crowning my spirit. i won’t live long enough to hear england’s news, but i’m prophesying that fortinbras will get his election lit. he’s got my dying voice—so pass that on along with whatever went down. the rest is silence.
[DIES.]

HORATIO. now, a noble heart cracks—good night, sweet prince, and may angel vibes sing you to rest. why is that drum coming here?
[MARCH WITHIN.]

ENTER FORTINBRAS, THE ENGLISH AMBASSADORS AND OTHERS.

FORTINBRAS. where is this vibe?

HORATIO. what exactly do you wanna peep? if you’re on the hunt for woe or wonder, stop your search.

FORTINBRAS. this quarry is wildin’ out with havoc—oh proud death, what feast is poppin’ in your eternal crib that you could drop so many princes so bloodily in one shot?

FIRST AMBASSADOR. the vibe is dismal; our intel from england is way too late. the ears that should be catching this are all numb, to inform him that his command is fulfilled—that rosencrantz and guildenstern are dead. where should we drop our thanks?

HORATIO. not from his mouth—even if he had the life to thank you, he never ordered their death. but since you lot—from the polack wars and england—have rolled in, order that these bodies get hoisted high on a stage for everyone to peep, and let me drop the story on how these wild deets went down: carnal, bloody, and totally unnatural acts; accidental judgements; random slaughters; deaths served up by slick, forced moves—and in the end, miscalculated schemes falling on the originators. all this, i can truly spill.

FORTINBRAS. let’s bounce to hear it, and summon the noblest to the stage. as for me, i sorrowfully embrace my fate—I hold memory rights in this kingdom that now invite me to claim my vantage.

HORATIO. i’ll have my say on that too, and let him whose voice matters speak even more. but let this be performed pronto, while minds are still wild, so no further mishaps on scheming and errors crop up.

FORTINBRAS. let four captains hoist hamlet like a soldier to the stage, for he likely would’ve proven himself most royally if he’d been showcased; and for his passage, the soldiers’ music and war rites shout his honor. haul up the bodies—a sight like this belongs in the field, but here it looks way off. go, command the soldiers to fire.

[A DEAD MARCH PLAYS.]

[EXEUNT, CARRYING OFF THE BODIES, FOLLOWED BY A BLAST OF ORDNANCE.]
