I couldn’t sleep all night; a fog-horn was groaning incessantly on the
Sound, and I tossed half-sick between grotesque reality and savage,
unreal dreams. Toward dawn I heard a taxi go up Gatsby’s drive, and
immediately I jumped out of bed and began to dress—I felt that I had
something to tell him, something to warn him about, and morning would
be too late.

Crossing his lawn, I saw that his front door was still open and he was
leaning against a table in the hall, heavy with dejection or sleep.

“Nothing happened,” he said wanly. “I waited, and about four o’clock
she came to the window and stood there for a minute and then turned out
the light.”

His house had never seemed so enormous to me as it did that night when
we hunted through the great rooms for cigarettes. We pushed aside curtains
that were like pavilions, and felt over innumerable feet of dark wall
for electric light switches—once I tumbled with a sort of splash upon
the keys of a ghostly piano. There was an inexplicable amount of dust
everywhere, and the rooms were musty, as though they hadn’t been aired
for many days. I found the humidor on an unfamiliar table, with two stale,
dry cigarettes inside. Throwing open the French windows of the drawing-room,
we sat smoking out into the darkness.

“You ought to go away,” I said. “It’s pretty certain they’ll trace your
car.”

“Go away now, old sport?”

“Go to Atlantic City for a week, or up to Montreal.”

He wouldn’t consider it. He couldn’t possibly leave Daisy until he knew
what she was going to do. He was clutching at some last hope and I couldn’t
bear to shake him free.

It was this night that he told me the strange story of his youth with Dan
Cody—told it to me because “Jay Gatsby” had broken up like glass against
Tom’s hard malice, and the long secret extravaganza was played out. I
think that he would have acknowledged anything now, without reserve, but
he wanted to talk about Daisy.

She was the first “nice” girl he had ever known. In various unrevealed
capacities he had come in contact with such people, but always with indiscernible
 barbed wire between. He found her excitingly desirable. He went to her
house, at first with other officers from Camp Taylor, then alone. It
amazed him—he had never been in such a beautiful house before. But what
gave it an air of breathless intensity was that Daisy lived there—it was
her house, her father’s house. The atmosphere of the place impressed him,
and he felt that he had stumbled into a romantic world, a world of fashion,
of extravagance, of gaiety—a world from which he was separated by a vast
gulf.

He had intended, probably, to take what he could and go—but now he found
that he had committed himself to the following of a grail. He knew that
Daisy was extraordinary, but he didn’t realize just how extraordinary
a “nice” girl could be. She vanished into her rich house, into her rich,
full life, leaving Gatsby—nothing. He felt married to her, that was all.

When they met again, two days later, it was Gatsby who was breathless,
who was somehow betrayed. Her porch was bright with the bought luxury of
star-shine; the wicker of the settee squeaked fashionably as she turned
toward him and he kissed her curious and lovely mouth.

She had caught a cold, and it made her voice huskier and more charming
than ever, and Gatsby was overwhelmingly aware of the youth and mystery
that wealth imprisons and preserves, of the freshness of many clothes,
and of Daisy, gleaming like silver, safe and proud above the hot struggles
of the poor.

“I can’t describe to you how surprised I was to find out I loved her, old
sport. I even hoped for a while that she’d throw me over, but she didn’t,
because she was in love with me too. She thought I knew a lot because I
knew different things from her.… Well, there I was, way off my ambitions,
getting deeper in love every minute, and all of a sudden I didn’t care.
What was the use of doing great things if I could have a better time telling
her what I was going to do?”

On the last afternoon before he went abroad, he sat with her on the porch,
and she searched his face with eyes that had forgotten the sadness of her
previous promise. He had made arrangements to go to Oxford, but he was
afraid to go. He knew that if he left her, he would lose the opportunity
of finding her again.

He did extraordinarily well in the war. He was a captain before he went
to the front, and following the Argonne battles he got his majority and
the command of the divisional machine-guns. After the Armistice he tried
frantically to get home, but some complication or misunderstanding sent
him to Oxford instead. He was worried now—there was a quality of nervous
despair in Daisy’s letters. She didn’t see why he couldn’t come. She was
feeling the pressure of the world outside, and she wanted to see him and
feel his presence beside her and be reassured that she was doing the right
thing after all.

For Daisy was young and her artificial world was redolent of orchids and
pleasant, cheerful snobbery and orchestras which set the rhythm of the
year, summing up the sadness and suggestiveness of life in new tunes.
All night the saxophones wailed the hopeless comment of the Beale Street
Blues while a hundred pairs of golden and silver slippers shuffled the
shining dust. At the grey tea hour there were always rooms that throbbed
incessantly with this low, sweet fever, while fresh faces drifted here
and there like rose petals blown by the sad horns around the floor.

Through this twilight universe Daisy began to move again with the season;
suddenly she was again keeping half a dozen dates a day with half a dozen
men, and drowsing asleep at dawn with the beads and chiffon of an evening
dress tangled among dying orchids on the floor beside her bed. And all
the time something within her was crying for a decision. She wanted her
life shaped now, immediately—and the decision must be made by some force—of
love, of money, of unquestionable practicality—that was close at hand.

That force took shape in the middle of spring with the arrival of Tom
Buchanan. There was a wholesome bulkiness about his person and his position,
and Daisy was flattered. Doubtless there was a certain struggle and a certain
relief. The letter reached Gatsby while he was still at Oxford.

It was dawn now on Long Island and we went about opening the rest of the
windows downstairs, filling the house with grey-turning, gold-turning
light. The shadow of a tree fell abruptly across the dew and ghostly birds
began to sing among the blue leaves. There was a slow, pleasant movement
in the air, scarcely a wind, promising a cool, lovely day.

“I don’t think she ever loved him,” Gatsby turned around from a window
and looked at me challengingly. “You must remember, old sport, she was
very excited this afternoon. He told her those things in a way that frightened
her—that made it look as if I was some kind of cheap sharper. And the result
was she hardly knew what she was saying.”

He sat down gloomily.

“Of course she might have loved him just for a minute, when they were first
married—and loved me more even then, do you see?”

Suddenly he came out with a curious remark.

“In any case,” he said, “it was just personal.”

What could you make of that, except to suspect some intensity in his conception
of the affair?

He told me that he had waited for her at the gate of her house for a long
time, and that he had a gun with him. He was going to wait until he heard
that she was not going to leave her husband.

“I waited there for about four hours, and then I went home and got some
sleep. I had a dream that I was standing on a street corner and a man came
up to me and said: ‘You’re under arrest.’ I said: ‘What for?’ He said:
‘For killing a man.’ I said: ‘I haven’t killed anyone.’ He said: ‘I know
you haven’t, but you’re going to.’ And then he pointed down the street and
I saw a man lying on the sidewalk, and I went over and looked at him, and
it was me.”

He told me this story because he had no one else to tell it to.

When I left him he was standing in the doorway of his house, with his
hand up in a formal gesture of farewell.

I had gone half-way to my own house when I remembered something and turned
around.

“They’re a rotten crowd,” I shouted across the lawn. “You’re worth the
whole damn bunch put together.”

I’ve always been glad I said that. It was the only compliment I ever gave
him, because I disapproved of him from beginning to end. First he nodded
politely, and then his face broke into that radiant and understanding
smile, as if we’d been in ecstatic cahoots on that fact all the time.
His gorgeous pink rag of a suit made a bright spot of colour against the
white steps, and I thought of the night when I first came to his ancestral
home, three months before. The lawn and drive had been crowded with the
faces of those who guessed at his corruption—and he had stood on those
same steps, concealing his incorruptible dream, as he waved them goodbye.

I thanked him for his hospitality. We were always thanking him for that—I
and the others.

“Goodbye,” I said, “I enjoyed breakfast, Gatsby.”

Up in the city, I tried for a while to list the quotations on an interminable
amount of stock, then I fell asleep in my swivel-chair. Just before noon
the phone woke me, and I started up with sweat breaking out on my forehead.
It was Jordan Baker; she often called me up at this hour because the uncertainty
of her own movements between hotels and clubs and private houses made her
hard to find in any other way. Usually her voice came over the wire as
something fresh and cool, as if a divot from a green golf-links had come
sailing in at the office window, but this morning it seemed harsh and dry.

“I’ve left Daisy’s house,” she said. “I’m at Hempstead, and I’m going down
to Southampton this afternoon.”

Probably it had been tactful to leave Daisy’s house, but the act annoyed
me, and her next remark made me rigid.

“You weren’t so nice to me last night.”

“How could it have mattered then?”

Silence for a moment. Then:

“However—I don’t believe we’ll see each other again. I’m going to stay
in Southampton all summer.”

“I don’t see how you can,” I said.

“I’m engaged to be married. I was going to tell you, but you prevented
me.”

“I did not. I was going to ask you to dinner.”

“I’m sorry, but I’m engaged to be married. His name is—”

Her voice faded off and I hung up the receiver.

I had no choice now but to cut him off there.

I called Gatsby’s house a few minutes later, but the line was busy. I tried
four times; finally an exasperated central told me the wire was being
held open for long distance from Detroit. Taking out my timetable, I drew
a small circle around the three-fifty train. Then I lay down on the couch
and fell asleep.

When I woke up, the shades were down and the room was cool. I got up and
went to the door and for a moment I thought I was looking at the wrong
house. A new coupé which had left Gatsby’s drive not two minutes before
rested in the ditch beside the road, right side up, but violently shorn
of one wheel. The sharp jut of a wall accounted for the detachment of the
wheel, which was now getting considerable attention from half a dozen
curious chauffeurs. However, as they had left their cars blocking the road,
a harsh, discordant din from those in the rear had been audible for some
time, and added to the already violent confusion of the scene.

A man in a long duster had dismounted from the wreck and now stood in the
middle of the road, looking from the car to the tyre and from the tyre
to the observers in a pleasant, puzzled way.

“See!” he explained. “It went in the ditch.”

The fact was infinitely astonishing to him, and I recognized first the
unusual quality of wonder, and then the man—it was the late patron of
Gatsby’s library.

“How’d it happen?”

He shrugged his shoulders.

“I know nothing whatever about mechanics,” he said decisively.

“But how did it happen? Did you run into the wall?”

“Don’t ask me,” said Owl Eyes, washing his hands of the whole matter. “I
know very little about driving—next to nothing. It happened, and that’s
all I know.”

“Well, if you’re a poor driver you oughtn’t to try driving at night.”

“But I wasn’t even trying,” he explained indignantly, “I wasn’t even
trying.”

An awed hush fell upon the bystanders.

“Do you want to commit suicide?”

“You’re lucky it was just a wheel! A bad driver and not even trying!”

“You don’t understand,” explained the criminal. “I wasn’t driving.
There’s another man in the car.”

The shock that followed this declaration found voice in a sustained
“Ah-h-h!” as the door of the coupé swung slowly open. The crowd—it was
now a crowd—stepped back involuntarily, and when the door had opened
wide there was a ghostly pause. Then, very gradually, part by part, a
pale, dangling individual stepped out of the wreck, pawing tentatively
at the ground with a large uncertain dancing shoe.

Blinded by the glare of the headlights and confused by the incessant
groaning of the horns, the apparition stood swaying for a moment before
he perceived the man in the duster.

“Wha’s matter?” he inquired calmly. “Did we run outa gas?”

“Look!”

Half a dozen fingers pointed at the amputated wheel—he stared at it for
a moment, and then looked upward as though he suspected that it had
dropped from the sky.

“It came off,” someone explained.

He nodded.

“At first I din’ notice we’d stopped.”

A pause. Then, taking a long breath and straightening his shoulders, he
remarked in a determined voice:

“Wonder’ff tell me where there’s a gas’line station?”

At least a dozen men, some of them a little better off than he was,
explained to him that wheel and car were no longer joined by any physical
bond.

“Back out,” he suggested after a moment. “Put her in reverse.”

“But the wheel’s off!”

He hesitated.

“No harm in trying,” he said.

The caterwauling horns had reached a crescendo and I turned away and cut
across the lawn toward home. I glanced back once. A wafer of a moon was
shining over Gatsby’s house, making the night fine as before, and
surviving the laughter and the sound of his still glowing garden. A
sudden emptiness seemed to flow now from the windows and the great doors,
endowing with complete isolation the figure of the host, who stood on the
porch, his hand up in a formal gesture of farewell.

There was a faint, barely perceptible movement of the water as the fresh
flow of the tide moved stealthily in. The police superintendent, who was
a friend of mine, broke the news to me on the phone.

“Mr. Gatsby’s dead,” he said.

“What?”

“He’s been shot.”

“Where?”

“In the swimming-pool.”

There was a long silence on the other end of the wire, followed by an
exclamation … then a quick squawk as the connection was broken.

I have an idea that Gatsby himself didn’t believe it would come, and perhaps
he no longer cared. If that was true he must have felt that he had lost
the old warm world, paid a high price for living too long with a single
dream. He must have looked up at an unfamiliar sky through frightening
leaves and shivered as he found what a grotesque thing a rose is and how
raw the sunlight was upon the scarcely created grass. A new world, material
without being real, where poor ghosts, breathing dreams like air, drifted
fortuitously about … like that ashen, fantastic figure gliding toward him
through the amorphous trees.

The chauffeur—he was one of Wolfsheim’s protégés—heard the shots—afterward
he could only say that he hadn’t thought anything much about them. I drove
from the station directly to Gatsby’s house and my rushing anxiously up
the front steps was the first thing that alarmed any one. But they knew
then, I firmly believe. With scarcely a word said, four of us, the chauffeur,
butler, gardener, and I, hurried down to the pool.

There was a faint, barely perceptible movement of the water as the fresh
flow of the tide moved stealthily in. The police superintendent, who was
a friend of mine, broke the news to me on the phone.

“Mr. Gatsby’s dead,” he said.

“What?”

“He’s been shot.”

“Where?”

“In the swimming-pool.”

There was a long silence on the other end of the wire, followed by an
exclamation … then a quick squawk as the connection was broken.

I have an idea that Gatsby himself didn’t believe it would come, and perhaps
he no longer cared. If that was true he must have felt that he had lost
the old warm world, paid a high price for living too long with a single
dream. He must have looked up at an unfamiliar sky through frightening
leaves and shivered as he found what a grotesque thing a rose is and how
raw the sunlight was upon the scarcely created grass. A new world, material
without being real, where poor ghosts, breathing dreams like air, drifted
fortuitously about … like that ashen, fantastic figure gliding toward him
through the amorphous trees.
