About this time an ambitious young reporter from New York arrived one
morning at Gatsby’s door and asked him if he had anything to say.

“Anything to say about what?” inquired Gatsby politely.

“Why,—any statement to give out.”

It transpired after a confused five minutes that the man had heard Gatsby’s
name around his office in a connection which he either wouldn’t reveal
or didn’t fully understand. This was his day off and with laudable initiative
he had hurried out “to see.”

It was a random shot, and yet the reporter’s instinct was right. Gatsby’s
notoriety, spread about by the hundreds who had accepted his hospitality
and so become authorities on his past, had increased all summer until he
fell just short of being news. Contemporary legends such as the “underground
pipe-line to Canada” attached themselves to him, and there was one persistent
story that he didn’t live in a house at all, but in a boat that looked
like a house and was moved secretly up and down the Long Island shore.
Just why these inventions were a source of satisfaction to James Gatz of
North Dakota, isn’t easy to say.

James Gatz—that was really, or at least legally, his name. He had changed
it at the age of seventeen and at the specific moment that witnessed the
beginning of his career—when he saw Dan Cody’s yacht drop anchor over the
most insidious flat on Lake Superior. It was James Gatz who had been loafing
along the beach that afternoon in a torn green jersey and a pair of canvas
pants, but it was already Jay Gatsby who borrowed a rowboat, pulled out
to the Tuolomee, and informed Cody that a wind might catch him and break
him up in half an hour.

I suppose he’d had the name ready for a long time, even then. His parents
were shiftless and unsuccessful farm people—his imagination had never
really accepted them as his parents at all. The truth was that Jay Gatsby
of West Egg, Long Island, sprang from his Platonic conception of himself.
He was a son of God—a phrase which, if it means anything, means just that—and
he must be about His Father’s business, the service of a vast, vulgar,
and meretricious beauty. So he invented just the sort of Jay Gatsby that
a seventeen-year-old boy would be likely to invent, and to this conception
he was faithful to the end.

For over a year he had been beating his way along the south shore of Lake
Superior as a clam-digger and a salmon-fisher or in any other capacity
that brought him food and bed. His brown, hardening body lived naturally
through the half-fierce, half-lazy work of the bracing days. He knew women
early, and since they spoiled him he became contemptuous of them, of young
virgins because they were ignorant, of the others because they were hysterical
about things which in his overwhelming self-absorption he took for granted.

But his heart was in a constant, turbulent riot. The most grotesque and
fantastic conceits haunted him in his bed at night. A universe of ineffable
gaudiness spun itself out in his brain while the clock ticked on the wash-stand
and the moon soaked with wet light his tangled clothes upon the floor.
Each night he added to the pattern of his fancies until drowsiness closed
down upon some vivid scene with an oblivious embrace. For a while these
reveries provided an outlet for his imagination; they were a satisfactory
hint of the unreality of reality, a promise that the rock of the world
was founded securely on a fairy’s wing.

An instinct toward his future glory had led him, some months before, to
the small Lutheran college of St. Olaf in southern Minnesota. He stayed
there two weeks, dismayed at its ferocious indifference to the drums of
his destiny, to destiny itself, and despising the janitor’s work with
which he was to pay his way through. Then he drifted back to Lake Superior,
and he was still searching for something to do on the day that Dan Cody’s
yacht dropped anchor in the shallows alongshore.

Cody was fifty years old then, a product of the Nevada silver fields,
of the Yukon, of every rush for metal since seventy-five. The transactions
in Montana copper that made him many times a millionaire found him physically
robust but on the verge of soft-mindedness, and, suspecting this, an infinite
number of women tried to separate him from his money. The none too savory
ramifications by which Ella Kaye, the newspaper woman, played Madame de
Maintenon to his weakness and sent him to sea in a yacht, were common
knowledge to the turgid sub-journalism of 1902. He had been coasting along
all too hospitable shores for five years when he turned up as James Gatz’s
destiny in Little Girl Bay.

To the young Gatz, resting on his oars and looking up at the railed deck,
the yacht represented all the beauty and glamour in the world. I suppose
he smiled at Cody—he had probably discovered that people liked him when
he smiled. At any rate Cody asked him a few questions (one of them elicited
the brand new name) and found that he was quick and extravagantly ambitious.
A few days later he took him to Duluth and bought him a blue coat, six
pairs of white duck trousers, and a yachting cap. And when the Tuolomee
left for the West Indies and the Barbary Coast Gatsby left too.

He was employed in a vague personal capacity—while he remained with Cody
he was in turn steward, mate, skipper, secretary, and even jailor, for
Dan Cody sober knew what lavish doings Dan Cody drunk might soon be about,
and he provided for such contingencies by reposing more and more trust
in Gatsby. The arrangement lasted five years, during which the boat went
three times around the Continent. It might have lasted indefinitely except
for the fact that Ella Kaye came on board one night in Boston and a week
later Dan Cody inhospitably died.

I remember the portrait of him up in Gatsby’s bedroom, a grey, florid man
with a hard, empty face—the pioneer debauchee, who during one phase of
American life brought back to the Eastern seaboard the savage violence
of the frontier brothel and saloon. It was indirectly due to Cody that
Gatsby drank so little. Sometimes in the course of gay parties women so
ostentatiously and brilliantly drunk that they had to be carried out into
the garden just for the fun of it, would get their husbands to go with
them, and whenever this happened Tom would be outraged half an hour later,
and his indignation would have been much more surprising if he hadn’t been
so obviously tipsy himself.

When Tom and Daisy came to Gatsby’s party, the movie star and her director
were still there. They were still under the white-plum tree, and their
faces were touching except for a pale, thin ray of moonlight that fell
between. It was Sunday, and I was sitting on the front steps, cracking
my knuckles, while Gatsby pointed out various people to his guests.

“That’s a friend of mine,” he said. “A very famous actor.”

“Go ahead,” answered Daisy genially, “and if you want to take down any
addresses here’s my little gold pencil.”… She looked at Gatsby. “What was
it you wanted to ask me?”

“I’m giving a little party this evening,” he said. “I thought you might
be here.”

She held my hand impersonally, as a promise that she’d take care of me in
a minute, and gave ear to two girls in twin yellow dresses, who stopped
at the foot of the steps.

“Hello!” they cried together. “Sorry you didn’t win.”

That was for the golf tournament. She had lost in the finals the week
before.

“You don’t know who we are,” said one of the girls in yellow, “but we met
you here about a month ago.”

“You’ve dyed your hair since then,” remarked Jordan, and I started, but
the girls had moved casually on and her remark was addressed to the
premature moon, produced like the supper, no doubt, out of a caterer’s
basket. With Jordan’s slender golden arm resting in mine, we descended
the steps and sauntered about the garden. A tray of cocktails floated at
us through the twilight, and we sat down at a table with the two girls in
yellow and three men, each one introduced to us as Mr. Mumble.

“Do you come to these parties often?” inquired Jordan of the girl beside
her.

“The last one was the one I met you at,” answered the girl, in an alert
confident voice. She turned to her companion: “Wasn’t it for you, Lucille?”

It was for Lucille, too.

“I like to come,” Lucille said. “I never care what I do, so I always have
a good time. When I was here last I tore my gown on a chair, and he asked
me my name and address—inside of a week I got a package from Croirier’s
with a new evening gown in it.”

“Did you keep it?” asked Jordan.

“Sure I did. I was going to wear it tonight, but it was too big in the
bust and had to be altered. It was gas blue with lavender beads. Two
hundred and sixty-five dollars.”

“There’s something funny about a fellow that’ll do a thing like that,”
said the other girl eagerly. “He doesn’t want any trouble with anybody.”

“Who doesn’t?” I inquired.

“Gatsby. Somebody told me—”

The two girls and Jordan leaned together confidentially.

“Somebody told me they thought he killed a man once.”

A thrill passed over all of us. The three Mr. Mumbles bent forward and
listened eagerly.

“I don’t think it’s so much that,” argued Lucille sceptically; “it’s more
that he was a German spy during the war.”

One of the men nodded in confirmation.

“I heard that from a man who knew all about him, grew up with him in
Germany,” he assured us positively.

“Oh, no,” said the first girl, “it couldn’t be that, because he was in the
American army during the war.” As our credulity switched back to her she
leaned forward with enthusiasm. “You look at him sometimes when he thinks
nobody’s looking at him. I’ll bet he killed a man.”

She narrowed her eyes and shivered. Lucille shivered. We all turned and
looked around for Gatsby. It was testimony to the romantic speculation
he inspired that there were whispers about him from those who had found
little that it was necessary to whisper about in this world.

The first supper—there would be another one after midnight—was now being
served, and Jordan invited me to join her own party, who were spread
around a table on the other side of the garden. There were three married
couples and Jordan’s escort, a persistent undergraduate given to violent
innuendo, and obviously under the impression that sooner or later Jordan
was going to yield him up her person to a greater or lesser degree.
Instead of rambling, this party had preserved a dignified homogeneity,
and assumed to itself the function of representing the staid nobility of
the countryside—East Egg condescending to West Egg and carefully on guard
against its spectroscopic gaiety.

“Let’s get out,” whispered Jordan, after a somehow wasteful and
inappropriate half-hour; “this is much too polite for me.”

We got up, and she explained that we were going to find the host: I had
never met him, she said, and it was making me uneasy. The undergraduate
nodded in a cynical, melancholy way.

The bar, where we glanced first, was crowded, but Gatsby was not there.
She couldn’t find him from the top of the steps, and he wasn’t on the
veranda. On a chance we tried an important-looking door, and walked into
a high Gothic library, panelled with carved English oak, and probably
transported complete from some ruin overseas.

A stout, middle-aged man, with enormous owl-eyed spectacles, was sitting
somewhat drunk on the edge of a great table, staring with unsteady
concentration at the shelves of books. As we entered he wheeled excitedly
around and examined Jordan from head to foot.

“What do you think?” he demanded impetuously.

“About what?”

He waved his hand toward the bookshelves.

“About that. As a matter of fact you needn’t bother to ascertain. I
ascertained. They’re real.”

“The books?”

He nodded.

“Absolutely real—have pages and everything. I thought they’d be a nice
durable cardboard. Matter of fact, they’re absolutely real. Pages
and—Here! Lemme show you.”

Taking our scepticism for granted, he rushed to the bookcases and returned
with Volume One of the Stoddard Lectures.

“See!” he cried triumphantly. “It’s a bona-fide piece of printed matter.
It fooled me. This fella’s a regular Belasco. It’s a triumph. What
thoroughness! What realism! Knew when to stop, too—didn’t cut the pages.
But what do you want? What do you expect?”

He snatched the book from me and replaced it hastily on its shelf,
muttering that if one brick was removed the whole library was liable to
collapse.

“Who brought you?” he demanded. “Or did you just come? I was brought.
Most people were brought.”

Jordan looked at him alertly, cheerfully, without answering.

“I was brought by a woman named Roosevelt,” he continued. “Mrs. Claud
Roosevelt. Do you know her? I met her somewhere last night. I’ve been
drunk for about a week now, and I thought it might sober me up to sit in
a library.”

“Has it?”

“A little bit, I think. I can’t tell yet. I’ve only been here an hour. Did
I tell you about the books? They’re real. They’re—”

“You told us.”

We shook hands with him gravely and went back outdoors.

There was dancing now on the canvas in the garden; old men pushing young
girls backward in eternal graceless circles, superior couples holding
each other tortuously, fashionably, and keeping in the corners—and a
great number of single girls dancing individually or relieving the
orchestra for a moment of the burden of the banjo or the traps. By
midnight the hilarity had increased. A celebrated tenor had sung in
Italian, and a notorious contralto had sung in jazz, and between the
numbers people were doing “stunts” all over the garden, while happy,
vacuous bursts of laughter rose toward the summer sky. A pair of stage
twins, who turned out to be the girls in yellow, did a baby act in costume,
and champagne was served in glasses bigger than finger-bowls. The moon
had risen higher, and floating in the Sound was a triangle of silver
scales, trembling a little to the stiff, tinny drip of the banjoes on the
lawn.

I was still with Jordan Baker. We were sitting at a table with a man of
about my age and a rowdy little girl, who gave way upon the slightest
provocation to uncontrollable laughter. I was enjoying myself now. I had
taken two finger-bowls of champagne, and the scene had changed before my
eyes into something significant, elemental, and profound.

At a lull in the entertainment the man looked at me and smiled.

“Your face is familiar,” he said politely. “Weren’t you in the First
Division during the war?”

“Why yes. I was in the Twenty-eighth Infantry.”

“I was in the Sixteenth until June nineteen-eighteen. I knew I’d seen you
somewhere before.”

We talked for a moment about some wet, grey little villages in France.
Evidently he lived in this vicinity, for he told me that he had just
bought a hydroplane, and was going to try it out in the morning.

“Want to go with me, old sport? Just near the shore along the Sound.”

“What time?”

“Any time that suits you best.”

It was on the tip of my tongue to ask his name when Jordan looked around
and smiled.

“Having a gay time now?” she inquired.

“Much better.” I turned again to my new acquaintance. “This is an unusual
party for me. I haven’t even seen the host. I live over there—” I waved
my hand at the invisible hedge in the distance, “and this man Gatsby sent
over his chauffeur with an invitation.”

For a moment he looked at me as if he failed to understand.

“I’m Gatsby,” he said suddenly.

“What!” I exclaimed. “Oh, I beg your pardon.”

“I thought you knew, old sport. I’m afraid I’m not a very good host.”

He smiled understandingly—much more than understandingly. It was one of
those rare smiles with a quality of eternal reassurance in it, that you
may come across four or five times in life. It faced—or seemed to face—the
whole eternal world for an instant, and then concentrated on you with an
irresistible prejudice in your favour. It understood you just so far as
you wanted to be understood, believed in you as you would like to believe
in yourself, and assured you that it had precisely the impression of you
that, at your best, you hoped to convey. Precisely at that point it
vanished—and I was looking at an elegant young roughneck, a year or two
over thirty, whose elaborate formality of speech just missed being absurd.
Some time before he introduced himself I’d got a strong impression that
he was picking his words with care.

Almost at the moment when Mr. Gatsby identified himself a butler hurried
toward him with the information that Chicago was calling him on the wire.
He excused himself with a small bow that included each of us in turn.

“If you want anything just ask for it, old sport,” he urged me. “Excuse
me. I will rejoin you later.”

When he was gone I turned immediately to Jordan—constrained to assure
her of my surprise. I had expected that Mr. Gatsby would be a florid and
corpulent person in his middle years.

“Who is he?” I demanded. “Do you know?”

“He’s just a man named Gatsby.”

“Where is he from, I mean? And what does he do?”

“Now you’re started on the subject,” she answered with a wan smile. “Well,
he told me once he was an Oxford man.”

A dim background started to take shape behind him, but at her next remark
it faded away.

“However, I don’t believe it.”

“Why not?”

“I don’t know,” she insisted, “I just don’t think he went there.”

Something in her tone reminded me of the other girl’s “I think he killed
a man,” and had the effect of stimulating my curiosity. I would have
accepted without question the information that Gatsby sprang from the
swamps of Louisiana or from the lower East Side of New York. That was
comprehensible. But young men didn’t—at least in my provincial
inexperience I believed they didn’t—drift coolly out of nowhere and buy
a palace on Long Island Sound.

“Anyhow, he gives large parties,” said Jordan, changing the subject with
an urban distaste for the concrete. “And I like large parties. They’re so
intimate. At small parties there isn’t any privacy.”

There was the boom of a bass drum, and the voice of the orchestra leader
rang out suddenly above the echolalia of the garden.

“Ladies and gentlemen,” he cried. “At the request of Mr. Gatsby we are
going to play for you Mr. Vladmir Tostoff’s latest work, which attracted
so much attention at Carnegie Hall last May. If you read the papers you
know there was a big sensation.” He smiled with jovial condescension, and
added: “Some sensation!” Whereupon everybody laughed.

“The piece is known,” he concluded lustily, “as ‘Vladmir Tostoff’s Jazz
History of the World!’”

The nature of Mr. Tostoff’s composition eluded me, because just as it
began my eyes fell on Gatsby, standing alone on the marble steps and
looking from one group to another with approving eyes. His tanned skin
was drawn attractively tight on his face and his short hair looked as
though it were trimmed every day. I could see nothing sinister about him.
I wondered if the fact that he was not drinking helped to set him off from
his guests, for it seemed to me that he grew more correct as the fraternal
hilarity increased. When the “Jazz History of the World” was over, girls
were putting their heads on men’s shoulders in a puppyish, convivial way,
girls were swooning backward playfully into men’s arms, even into groups,
knowing that someone would arrest their falls—but no one swooned backward
on Gatsby, and no French bob touched Gatsby’s shoulder, and no singing
quartets were formed with Gatsby’s head for one link.

“I beg your pardon.”

Gatsby’s butler was suddenly standing beside us.

“Miss Baker?” he inquired. “I beg your pardon, but Mr. Gatsby would like
to speak to you alone.”

“With me?” she exclaimed in surprise.

“Yes, madame.”

She got up slowly, raising her eyebrows at me in astonishment, and
followed the butler toward the house. I noticed that she wore her
evening-dress, all her dresses, like sports clothes—there was a jauntiness
about her movements as if she had first learned to walk upon golf courses
on clean, crisp mornings.

I was alone and it was almost two. For some time confused and intriguing
sounds had issued from a long, many-windowed room which overhung the
terrace. Eluding Jordan’s undergraduate, who was now engaged in an
obstetrical conversation with two chorus girls, and who implored me to
join him, I went inside.

The large room was full of people. One of the girls in yellow was playing
the piano, and beside her stood a tall, red-haired young lady from a
famous chorus, engaged in song. She had drunk a quantity of champagne,
and during the course of her song she had decided, ineptly, that everything
was very, very sad—she was not only singing, she was weeping too. Whenever
there was a pause in the song she filled it with gasping, broken sobs,
and then took up the lyric again in a quavering soprano. The tears coursed
down her cheeks—not freely, however, for when they came into contact with
her heavily beaded eyelashes they assumed an inky colour, and pursued
the rest of their way in slow black rivulets. A humorous suggestion was
made that she sing the notes on her face, whereupon she threw up her
hands, sank into a chair, and went off into a deep vinous sleep.

“She had a fight with a man who says he’s her husband,” explained a girl
at my elbow.

I looked around. Most of the remaining women were now having fights with
men said to be their husbands. Even Jordan’s party, the quartet from East
Egg, were rent asunder by dissension. One of the men was talking with
curious intensity to a young actress, and his wife, after attempting to
laugh at the situation in a dignified and indifferent way, broke down
entirely and resorted to flank attacks—at intervals she appeared suddenly
at his side like an angry diamond, and hissed: “You promised!” into his
ear.

The reluctance to go home was not confined to wayward men. The hall was
at present occupied by two deplorably sober men and their highly indignant
wives. The wives were sympathizing with each other in slightly raised
voices.

“Whenever he sees I’m having a good time he wants to go home.”

“Never heard anything so selfish in my life.”

“We’re always the first ones to leave.”

“So are we.”

“Well, we’re almost the last tonight,” said one of the men sheepishly.
“The orchestra left half an hour ago.”

In spite of the wives’ agreement that such malevolence was beyond
credibility, the dispute ended in a short struggle, and both wives were
lifted, kicking, into the night.

As I waited for my hat in the hall the door of the library opened and
Jordan Baker and Gatsby came out together. He was saying some last word
to her, but the eagerness in his manner tightened abruptly into formality
as several people approached him to say goodbye.

Jordan’s party were calling impatiently to her from the porch, but she
lingered for a moment to shake hands.

“I’ve just heard the most amazing thing,” she whispered. “How long were
we in there?”

“Why, about an hour.”

“It was … simply amazing,” she repeated abstractedly. “But I swore I
wouldn’t tell it and here I am tantalizing you.” She yawned gracefully
in my face. “Please come and see me … Phone book … Under the name of
Mrs. Sigourney Howard … My aunt …” She was hurrying off as she talked—her
brown hand waved a jaunty salute as she melted into her party at the
door.

Rather ashamed that on my first appearance I had stayed so late, I joined
the last of Gatsby’s guests, who were clustered around him. I wanted to
explain that I’d hunted for him early in the evening and to apologize for
not having known him in the garden.

“Don’t mention it,” he enjoined me eagerly. “Don’t give it another
thought, old sport.” The familiar expression held no more familiarity
than the hand which reassuringly brushed my shoulder. “And don’t forget
we’re going up in the hydroplane tomorrow morning, at nine o’clock.”

Then the butler, behind his shoulder:

“Philadelphia wants you on the phone, sir.”

“All right, in a minute. Tell them I’ll be right there … Good night.”

“Good night.”

“Good night.” He smiled—and suddenly there seemed to be a pleasant
significance in having been among the last to go, as if he had desired
it all the time. “Good night, old sport … Good night.”

But as I walked down the steps I saw that the evening was not quite over.
Fifty feet from the door a dozen headlights illuminated a bizarre and
tumultuous scene. In the ditch beside the road, right side up, but
violently shorn of one wheel, rested a new coupé which had left Gatsby’s
drive not two minutes before. The sharp jut of a wall accounted for the
detachment of the wheel, which was now getting considerable attention
from half a dozen curious chauffeurs. However, as they had left their
cars blocking the road, a harsh, discordant din from those in the rear
had been audible for some time, and added to the already violent confusion
of the scene.

A man in a long duster had dismounted from the wreck and now stood in the
middle of the road, looking from the car to the tyre and from the tyre
to the observers in a pleasant, puzzled way.

“See!” he explained. “It went in the ditch.”

The fact was infinitely astonishing to him, and I recognized first the
unusual quality of wonder, and then the man—it was the late patron of
Gatsby’s library.

“How’d it happen?”

He shrugged his shoulders.

“I know nothing whatever about mechanics,” he said decisively.

“But how did it happen? Did you run into the wall?”

“Don’t ask me,” said Owl Eyes, washing his hands of the whole matter. “I
know very little about driving—next to nothing. It happened, and that’s
all I know.”

“Well, if you’re a poor driver you oughtn’t to try driving at night.”

“But I wasn’t even trying,” he explained indignantly, “I wasn’t even
trying.”

An awed hush fell upon the bystanders.

“Do you want to commit suicide?”

“You’re lucky it was just a wheel! A bad driver and not even trying!”

“You don’t understand,” explained the criminal. “I wasn’t driving.
There’s another man in the car.”

The shock that followed this declaration found voice in a sustained
“Ah-h-h!” as the door of the coupé swung slowly open. The crowd—it was
now a crowd—stepped back involuntarily, and when the door had opened
wide there was a ghostly pause. Then, very gradually, part by part, a
pale, dangling individual stepped out of the wreck, pawing tentatively
at the ground with a large uncertain dancing shoe.

Blinded by the glare of the headlights and confused by the incessant
groaning of the horns, the apparition stood swaying for a moment before
he perceived the man in the duster.

“Wha’s matter?” he inquired calmly. “Did we run outa gas?”

“Look!”

Half a dozen fingers pointed at the amputated wheel—he stared at it for
a moment, and then looked upward as though he suspected that it had
dropped from the sky.

“It came off,” someone explained.

He nodded.

“At first I din’ notice we’d stopped.”

A pause. Then, taking a long breath and straightening his shoulders, he
remarked in a determined voice:

“Wonder’ff tell me where there’s a gas’line station?”

At least a dozen men, some of them a little better off than he was,
explained to him that wheel and car were no longer joined by any physical
bond.

“Back out,” he suggested after a moment. “Put her in reverse.”

“But the wheel’s off!”

He hesitated.

“No harm in trying,” he said.

The caterwauling horns had reached a crescendo and I turned away and cut
across the lawn toward home. I glanced back once. A wafer of a moon was
shining over Gatsby’s house, making the night fine as before, and
surviving the laughter and the sound of his still glowing garden. A
sudden emptiness seemed to flow now from the windows and the great doors,
endowing with complete isolation the figure of the host, who stood on the
porch, his hand up in a formal gesture of farewell.
