chapter v

within a short stroll from longbourn, there was a fam that the bennets were hella tight with. sir william lucas used to be in the biz back in meryton, where he made a decent stack and even leveled up to knighthood by dropping an epic speech to the king during his mayor time. maybe that whole honor thing hit him extra hard – he got so over his biz and the tiny market town life that he bailed with his fam to a crib about a mile away, which came to be known as lucas lodge; a spot where he could flex his own importance and, unburdened by work, just be all civil and friendly with everyone. even though he was mega hyped about his rank, it didn’t turn him into a snob – he was all about giving mad attention to every single person. naturally chill, friendly, and super obliging, his appearance at st. james’s had him looking ultra courteous.

lady lucas was an absolute gem – not so extra that she couldn’t be an epic neighbor for mrs. bennet. they had a bunch of kids, and the oldest – a smart, savvy young woman around twenty-seven – was elizabeth’s ride-or-die friend.

it was an absolute must that the miss lucases and the miss bennets link up to spill all the tea on the ball; and the morning after the assembly, the lucases rolled up to longbourn to share every deet.

“you kicked off the night in style, charlotte,” mrs. bennet said, keeping it all civil with miss lucas. “you were mr. bingley’s numero uno pick.”

“yeah; but he lowkey vibed more with his second pick.”

“oh, you mean jane, i guess – since he danced with her twice. like, obviously he was crushing on her – i seriously think he was, i heard some tea about it – though i can’t even remember the details… something about mr. robinson, maybe.”

“maybe you’re referring to what i caught when i was eavesdropping on him and mr. robinson – didn’t i spill that to you? mr. robinson was asking how he felt about our meryton hangs, wondering if there were a bunch of hot girls in the room, and which one was the prettiest; and he shot back instantly, ‘oh, the eldest miss bennet, no cap – there’s just no debate on that.’”

“omg, seriously! that was mad decisive – it totally seems like something went down – but, like, it might all end up being nothing, you know.”

“my eavesdroppings were way more on point than yours, eliza,” charlotte clapped back. “mr. darcy ain’t nearly as worth tuning into as his buddy, right? poor eliza – being only just tolerable isn’t enough for you!”

“please, don’t go getting lizzy all riled up over his lame treatment, ‘cause he’s the most disagreeable dude ever – it’d be a total bummer to be on his good side. mrs. long dropped the tea last night that he sat next to her for a whole half hour without even opening his lips.”

“without once opening his lips”

[copyright 1894 by george allen.]

“you totally sure about that, ma’am? maybe there’s a little mix-up?” said jane. “i swear, i caught mr. darcy chatting with her, no cap.”

“yup, because she finally asked him what he thought of netherfield, and he had to answer; but girl, she said he came off super pissed about being bothered.”

“miss bingley clued me in,” said jane, “that he never really talks unless he’s with his tight circle. with those peeps, he’s actually hella chill.”

“i don’t buy any of it, my dear. if he were that chill, he’d’ve talked to mrs. long. but i can totally guess – everyone’s saying he’s all about that pride life, and i bet he caught wind that mrs. long doesn’t roll in a proper carriage, so she had to show up in some basic hack chaise.”

“i’m cool with him staying silent with mrs. long,” said miss lucas, “but i was lowkey hoping he’d dance with eliza.”

“next time, lizzy,” her mama declared, “i’d totally skip dancing with him if i were you.”

“i swear, ma’am, i promise i’ll never dance with him.”

“his pride,” said miss lucas, “doesn’t bug me as much as pride usually does, ‘cause there’s a legit reason for it. like, you can’t really be shocked that a fine dude with a bomb fam, fortune, and all the perks thinks he’s the bee’s knees. honestly, he totally deserves to be proud.”

“that’s so true,” replied elizabeth, “and i might’ve forgiven his pride if he hadn’t totally crushed mine.”

“pride,” observed mary with her deep, solid vibes, “is such a common flop, i seriously believe. from everything i’ve read, i’m convinced it’s super common – like, human nature is basically wired for it, and hardly anyone escapes that self-love, whether it’s real or imagined. vanity and pride, they ain’t the same, even though people use them like twins. one can be proud without being vain – pride is all about how we see ourselves, and vanity is about what we want others to see.”

“if i had stacks like mr. darcy,” shouted a young lucas who rolled in with his sisters, “i wouldn’t give two daps about my pride. i’d be chillin’ with a pack of foxhounds and guzzling a bottle of wine every single day!”

“then you’d be knocking back way more than you should,” said mrs. bennet, “and if i caught you at it, i’d straight-up snatch your bottle away.”

the kid protested, like, “nah, you totally shouldn’t,” but mrs. bennet kept on declaring that she would – and that whole debate wrapped up just with the visit.
