chapter ii.

r. bennet was one of the first to roll up on mr. bingley. he’d always planned on visiting him, even though he kept telling his wife he wouldn’t go; and until after the visit was done, she had zero clue. then the tea was spilled like so. catching sight of his second daughter busy fixing up a hat, he suddenly slid over with:

“i hope mr. bingley will like it, lizzy.”

“we really don’t know what mr. bingley is vibing with,” her mom snapped resentfully, “since we’re not even supposed to visit.”

“but you’re forgetting, mamma,” elizabeth fired back, “we’re gonna meet him at the assemblies, and mrs. long promised to intro him.”

“i seriously doubt mrs. long will even do that. she’s got her own two nieces to fuss over. she’s a total selfish, fake queen, and i got no love for her.”

“i feel ya,” mr. bennet added, “and i’m glad you’re not banking on her coming through for you.”

mrs. bennet didn’t even bother replying; but she couldn’t hold it in and started scolding one of her daughters.

“stop coughing up a storm, kitty, for real—have some compassion for my nerves! you're literally shredding them.”

“kitty can’t even with her coughs,” her father remarked, “she times them so wrong.”

“i don’t cough just to clown, okay?” kitty snapped, totally agitated. “so, when’s your next ball, lizzy?”

“tomorrow fortnight.”

“ay, that’s how it goes,” her mom cried out, “and mrs. long won’t be back until the day before; so she literally can’t intro him ‘cause she won’t even know him herself.”

“then, my dear, lean on your bestie and intro mr. bingley to her.”

“impossible, mr. bennet, seriously impossible when i don’t even know him myself; how can you be so damn teasing?”

“i respect your caution. a fortnight barely scratches the surface for getting to know someone. you can’t really size up a dude in just two weeks. but if we don’t take the leap, someone else totally will; and honestly, mrs. long and her nieces deserve a shot too; so if you’re not down for the job, i’ll just handle it.”

the girls stared at their dad while mrs. bennet could only mutter, “nonsense, nonsense!”

“what’s up with that emphatic ‘nonsense’?” he exploded. “do you seriously think these formal intros and all this extra hype are just nonsense? i can’t fully agree with you there. what’s your take, mary? you’re known as a deep thinker who’s always reading big books and scribbling notes.”

mary tried to drop some wisdom, but got totally tongue-tied.

“while mary’s sorting out her thoughts,” mr. bennet continued, “let’s get back to mr. bingley.”

“i’m so over mr. bingley,” his wife shrieked.

“bummer to hear that; but why didn’t you say so earlier? had i known this morning, i definitely wouldn’t have swung by. it’s super unlucky, but now that i’ve already made the call, we gotta roll with it.”

the ladies’ shocked reactions were exactly what he aimed for—mrs. bennet’s reaction being the most extra of all; though once the initial hype died down, she started going on about how she’d known it all along.

“how awesome it was in you, my dear mr. bennet! i knew i’d eventually sway you. i was 100% sure you loved your girls too much to pass up an epic hookup. i’m so stoked! and it’s such a killer joke that you went this morning and kept it totally on the down-low until now.”

“now, kitty, cough all you want,” mr. bennet quipped, then bounced out of the room, clearly drained from his wife’s rapturous overflow.

“you guys have the best dad ever,” she cooed once the door shut. “i don’t know how you’ll ever repay him for his kindness—or me, for that matter. at our age, making fresh connections every day isn’t exactly a vibe; but for you, we’d go to any lengths. lydia, my love, even though you’re the baby, i’m betting mr. bingley will snag a dance with you at the next ball.”

“oh,” lydia retorted boldly, “i’m not even sweating it; just ‘cause i’m the youngest doesn’t mean i’m not the tallest.”

the rest of the evening was spent hyping up when he’d return mr. bennet’s visit and plotting when to slide an invite for dinner.

“i’m the tallest”

he rode a black horse.
