chapter iii.

ot all that mrs. bennet, even with the full squad of her five daughters in tow, could haplessly grill her husband about mr. bingley, was enough to extract from him any legit deets about the guy. they bombarded him with straight-up questions, wild guesses, and far-out assumptions; but he totally dodged every trap they set—forcing them, at last, to settle for the second-hand tea from their neighbor, lady lucas. and her report? super positive. sir william was all kinds of hyped about him. he was youthful af, drop-dead handsome, chill as heck, and, to top it all, planning to roll up to the next assembly with a major posse. nothing could be more fire! loving to dance was a straight-up ritual in the hustle to fall in love; and the hype for mr. bingley’s heart was real.

“if i can only peep one of my daughters happily locked down at netherfield,” mrs. bennet told her husband, “and all the rest secured in solid marriages, i’ll be living that perfect life.”

within a few days, mr. bingley bounced back with a visit to mr. bennet, chilling for about ten minutes in his library. he was lowkey hoping to catch a glimpse of the famed young ladies everyone was raving about—but all he got was the dad. the girls, however, had extra luck, since from an upper window they scoped out that he was rocking a blue coat and riding a slick black horse.

shortly after, a dinner invite was sent out; and mrs. bennet had already mapped out a killer menu that would flex her housekeeping skills—until an RSVP dropped that put all her plans on ice. mr. bingley had got called up to town the very next day, meaning he couldn’t accept their invite, etc. mrs. bennet was totally shook. she couldn’t imagine what kinda biz got him in town straight after touching down in hertfordshire; and she started stressing that he might just be a perpetual wanderer, never planting his flag at netherfield like he should. lady lucas cooled her jitters a bit by hinting that he was probably off to london just to grab a massive party for the ball; and soon word spread that mr. bingley was planning to roll in with twelve ladies and seven dudes to the assembly. the girls were lowkey bummed by that excess of ladies; but then, the day before the ball, they got the tea that instead of twelve, he’d only pulled six from london—his five sisters and a cousin. and when the party finally hit the assembly room, it boiled down to a mere five: mr. bingley, his two sisters, the hubby of the eldest, and one extra young dude.

mr. bingley was all kinds of good-looking and major gentleman vibes: sporting a chill, friendly countenance with low-key, unaffected manners. his sisters were total stunners, dripping with high-key fashion. his brother-in-law, mr. hurst, just had that basic “dude” look; but then his boy mr. darcy instantly stole the room’s spotlight with his tall, fine frame, sharp features, noble aura, and the rumor mill that within five minutes of his entrance, word was out that he was pulling in ten thousand a year. the dudes declared him a total manly icon, the ladies raved that he was hella hotter than mr. bingley, and he got mad props for about half the night—until his stiff demeanor flipped the script on his popularity; he was soon unmasked as being mockingly proud, way above his squad and even above simple pleasure; and not even his massive derbyshire estate could rescue him from sporting a downright forbidding, disagreeable mug, making him unworthy to even compare with his pal.

mr. bingley was out here leveling up, getting tight with all the main squad in the room: he was mad lit and unfiltered, busting moves at every dance, and lowkey salty that the ball dipped way too early – even dropping that he’d throw his own epic bash at netherfield. these chill vibes speak for themselves, no cap.

what a complete 180 compared to his buddy! mr. darcy only did a one-time spin with mrs. hurst and a one-and-done with miss bingley, straight up ghosting any chance to meet other chicas, and spent the rest of the night roaming around like a lone wolf, chatting only with his own crew. his vibe was set in stone: he was the proudest, most disagreeable dude ever, and everyone was lowkey praying he’d never crash their party again. and mrs. bennet? she was extra savage – already hating his whole energy, which got even worse when he dissed one of her daughters.

elizabeth bennet, due to the absolute shortage of proper gentlemen, had no choice but to sit through two dances; and during that sesh, mr. darcy was posted close enough for her to catch his convo with mr. bingley, who bounced over from the dance for a hot minute to drag his bro onto the floor.

“yo, darcy,” mr. bingley hollered, “you gotta dance, bruh. i can’t stand watching you stand solo like some lame statue. you seriously need to get in on this.”

“nah, i’m not down. you know i straight up despise dancing unless i’m tight with my partner. at a bash like this, it’d be straight-up unbearable. your sisters are booked, and every other chica in the room is just a major penalty for me to dance with.”

“bro, i ain’t that picky!” cried bingley. “i swear on my honor, i’ve never met so many chill, bomb-ass girls in my life as tonight – and there’s a whole squad of them who are crazy pretty.”

“you’re only spinning with the one fine chick in the room,” mr. darcy deadpanned, eyeballing the eldest miss bennet.

“oh man, she’s the most fuego babe i’ve ever seen! but yo, there’s another sis chillin’ right behind you who’s mad pretty and, i dare say, super agreeable. let me get my partner to slide over and introduce you.”

“she’s tolerable.”

[copyright 1894 by george allen.]

“which one you mean?” he snapped, turning around to peep elizabeth for a sec – catching her eye, he quickly looked away and coldly said, “she’s tolerable: but not hot enough to tempt me; and i’m not in the mood to give any attention to young ladies who get snubbed by other guys. you best bounce back to your partner and soak up her vibes, cuz you’re straight-up wasting your time with me.”

mr. bingley took the hint and dipped. mr. darcy walked off, and elizabeth was left with zero warm fuzzies for him. still, she later recounted the tea with mad spirit to her pals, since her vibe was all about the silly and absurd.

the night overall was pretty lit for the whole fam. mrs. bennet saw her oldest daughter get major clout from the netherfield crew. mr. bingley danced with her twice, and his sisters even threw some props her way. jane was all smiles – soaking up the kudos as much as mama could be, though in a quieter, more chill manner. elizabeth totally caught on to jane’s hype. mary even got named by miss bingley as the most accomplished queen in the neighborhood; and catherine and lydia were lucky enough to always snag a dance partner – which, honestly, was all the ball etiquette they cared about. they all bounced back in high spirits to longbourn, the village where they reigned supreme. when they got back, they found mr. bennet still up, nose-deep in a book, totally oblivious to time; and tonight, he was mad curious about the epic events that had set everyone’s expectations on fire. he had kinda hoped that all of his wife’s extra opinions on that snakey stranger would be canceled out; but it turned out he was about to get a whole different dose of tea.

“oh, my dear mr. bennet,” she chirped as she breezed into the room, “we just had the dopest evening ever – an epic ball that was straight-up fire. i wish you’d been there. jane was getting mad love, nothing could compare. everyone couldn’t stop raving about how on point she looked; and mr. bingley legit called her a total stunner, dancing with her twice. like, for real: he actually hit her up for a second dance – and she was the only one in the whole room he bothered with a round two. first, he went for miss lucas. i was so heated watching him pair up with her; but, like, he didn’t give her any serious props at all – honestly, no one can, you know – and he was clearly snapped on jane as she was winding down her dance. so he slid into a convo, asked who she was, netted an intro, and then kept scoring dance rounds with her – then, for his third round he paired with miss king, the fourth with maria lucas, the fifth again with jane, the sixth with lizzy, and then even the boulanger––”

“if he had any heart for me,” her husband snapped impatiently, “he wouldn’t have danced with half the room! for god’s sake, cut it out with the talk about his dance partners. i swear, i wish he’d just twist his ankle on that first dance!”

“oh, my dear,” mrs. bennet continued, “i am totally smitten with him. he’s excessively handsome! and his sisters? they’re pure charm. i’ve never seen anything more elegant than their dresses. i dare say the lace on mrs. hurst’s gown is, like, a whole vibe––”

and then she got cut off again. mr. bennet straight-up protested any more chatter about fancy finery. so mrs. bennet had to switch gears and then spilled the tea, with extra bitterness and a dash of exaggeration, about mr. darcy’s shockingly rude behavior.

“but i promise you,” she added, “lizzy isn’t really losing out by not vibing with him; he’s, like, the most disagreeable, horrid dude ever – not even worth a smile. so extra and so full of himself, there was absolutely no way anyone could put up with him! he wandered here and there, deadass thinking he was the greatest – not even cute enough to dance with! i wish you’d been there, my dear, to drop one of your savage set-downs on him. i honestly detest the man.”
