chapter vi.

the ladies of longbourn soon popped over to netherfield. the visit went down proper. miss bennet’s super chill manners won over mrs. hurst and miss bingley; and even though the mom was, like, totally intolerable and the younger sisters weren’t even worth chatting up, the two eldest still got a vibe for being known better. jane totally soaked up that attention with pure joy; but elizabeth still peeped how high and mighty they were with everyone – including her own sis – and just couldn’t get on board with them. even though their random kindness to jane had some value, it was almost certainly all fueled by their brother’s mad crush on her. like, every time they met, it was obvious he was lowkey admiring jane; and to elizabeth it was just as clear that jane was slowly giving in to that early crush, almost like she was falling in love – though elizabeth was secretly glad it wouldn’t become public, since jane had that unshakeable strength, chill demeanor, and constant bright energy that would keep nosy peeps in check. she spilled this tea to her friend, miss lucas.

“maybe it’s chill,” replied charlotte, “to sometimes pull a fast one on the public like that; but being so guarded can backfire. if a woman hides her feels so well from the one she’s into, she might miss her shot at locking him down – and it’d be a major bummer to have everyone equally kept in the dark. there’s so much gratitude and vanity mixed into every vibe that it isn’t smart to let things just be. we all start off free – a lil’ crush is totally natural – but honestly, almost none of us have the heart to be truly in love without a little push. like, nine times out of ten, a woman should show more affection than she’s actually feeling. bingley totally digs your sister, no doubt; but if she doesn’t help boost his vibe, he might just stick with that level of like.”

“but she does help him on, as much as her nature allows. if i can peep how she feels about him, then he’d be a total dummy if he didn’t catch on.”

“remember, eliza, he doesn’t have the deets on jane’s vibe as well as you do.”

“but if a chick is into a dude and doesn’t even try to hide it, he’s gonna figure it out eventually.”

“maybe he’s gotta, if he catches enough of her drip. but even tho bingley and jane are bumping into each other on the reg, they never really vibe for hours on end; and since they’re always getting their squad lit at these massive mixed-up ragers, there’s literally no way every minute’s spent just chattin’ with each other. so jane’s gotta milk every 30-minute window to snag his attention. once she’s got him in her clout, there’s mad time to fall head-over-heels, no cap.{29}”

“yo, your plan is fire,” replied elizabeth, “where the only deal is gettin’ hitched to someone solid; and if i was on a mission to score a rich hubby, or any hubby for that matter, bet, i’d be on that grind too. but nah, these aren’t jane’s vibes; she ain’t messing with it on purpose. right now, she can’t even tell how deep her feels run or if they even make sense. she’s only been peepin’ him for like two weeks. she rocked four dances with him at meryton; she peeped him one morning at his crib, and then smashed dinner with him four times. that’s not enough tea to decode his whole mood.”

“not like you’re sayin’ it. if she’d just been chowing down with him, she’d only know if he was down for grub; but remember, they also kicked it together for four whole nights — and four nights can drop a hella lot of deets.”

“yeah: these four evenings let them figure out that both are vibin’ with vingt-un over commerce, but aside from that major flex, i don’t think they’ve uncovered much else about his key traits.”

“alright,” said charlotte, “i’m rootin’ for jane 100%; and if she locked it in with him tomorrow, i’d say she’d have as much luck as if she spent a whole year dissecting his drip. marriage happiness is basically a roll of the dice. even if both folks are super clued into each other’s vibes or are matching like twin memes from the start, it doesn’t boost the happy feels one bit. eventually, they’re gonna diverge enough to have their own share of drama; honestly, it’s better to keep your receipt on the flaws of the person you’re stuck with to a bare minimum.{30}”

“yo, charlotte, you crack me up; but that’s straight-up bogus. you know it’s whack, and like, you’d never even roll that way yourself.”

while elizabeth was lowkey busy watching mr. bingley flex on her sis, she had zero clue that she herself was slowly becoming the trending topic in his bestie’s feed. mr. darcy at first barely gave her any props: he peeped her at the ball with zero admiration; and the next time they crossed paths, he only looked to drop critiques. but no cap, once he made it clear to himself and his crew that her face wasn’t serving any major fire, he peeped how her dark eyes, shining with a dope expression, made her look uncommonly smart. soon after, more cringe revelations followed. even tho his savage critic-eye clocked mad flaws in the symmetry of her whole vibe, he had to admit her figure was light and pleasing; and despite him dissing her manners as not on trend with the posh scene, he got caught up in their chill, playful energy. of course, she was completely oblivious: to her, he was just that dude who never managed to be on point anywhere, and who never thought she was hype enough to hit the dance floor.

dude started lowkey wanting to know more about her; and as a way to slide into her convos on his own, he began eavesdropping on her chats with the squad. obviously, she peeped his move. this all went down at sir william lucas’s crib, where a massive party had rolled up.

“what’s mr. darcy on about,” she asked charlotte, “when he’s been lurking on my convo with colonel forster?”

“that’s a question only mr. darcy can answer.”

“but if he keeps it up, imma definitely clap back and let him know i see through his game. he’s got a hella satirical eye, and if i don’t start dishing out some shade myself, i’m gonna get shook by his roast game.{31}”

“the entreaties of several” [copyright 1894 by george allen.]

soon after, as he rolled up to them—acting like he wasn’t planning to drop a word—miss lucas dared her friend to bring up that topic with him. totally goaded by that, elizabeth spun around and said,—

“yo, mr. darcy, didn’t you peep how fire my roast was just now when i was straight-up goading colonel forster to hook us up with a meryton ball?”

“with mad energy; but it’s a topic that always gets a lady lit, no cap.{32}”

“omg, you’re extra on us.”

“she’ll be up for roast next in no time,” said miss lucas. “i’m about to drop the beat on this instrument, eliza, and you know the drill.”

“like, you are such a weird friend sometimes! always pushing me to spit and drop tracks in front of literally everyone! if my vanity was all about that musical vibe, you’d be the mvp; but as it stands, i’d seriously rather not have to perform for peeps who are only used to hearing 5-star acts.” on miss lucas’s constant hustle, she added, “aight then; if it’s gotta be that way, so be it.” and glancing seriously at mr. darcy, she continued, “there’s this OG saying everyone here totally vibes with—‘keep your breath to cool your porridge’—and i’mma keep mine in chill mode to boost my jam.”

her performance was on fleek, but not exactly legendary. after dropping a tune or two, and before she could even answer the squad’s pleas for an encore, her sis mary jumped in on the instrument. mary, being the only not-so-gorgeous one in the fam, had to hustle hard for her knowledge and skills, and she was always hyped for the spotlight.

mary wasn’t blessed with that genius spark or aesthetic vibe; and even tho her vanity pushed her to practice, it also gave her this annoying pedantic and conceited aura that would’ve wrecked even a higher level of excellence than she ever reached. meanwhile, elizabeth—chill and effortlessly cool—was listened to with way more pleasure, even if she wasn’t playing half as fire; and mary, after banging out a long set, was stoked to score clout and mad props with scotch and irish remix jams, as requested by her younger sisters, who, along with some of the lucases and a couple of officers, busted out dancing at one end of the room.{33}

mr. darcy was chilling near them, lowkey fuming at how the evening was being wasted with zero convo, and was so deep in his own feels that he didn’t even clock that sir william lucas was his neighbor—until sir william started off:—

“yo, mr. darcy, what a lit vibe for the youth this is! honestly, nothing beats dancing. i gotta say, it’s like one of the original flexes of a classy crew.”

“fo sho, sir; and it’s also trending among the real ones: every savage can bust a move.”

sir william just cracked a smile. “your friend is straight-up on fire,” he continued after a beat, when i peeped bingley rolling into the group; “and i’m sure you’re killin’ it in that department too, mr. darcy.”

“you definitely saw me bust a move at meryton, i believe, sir.”

“yup, for real, and i got mad enjoyment from watchin’ that. do you even hit the dance floor at st. james’s?”

“never, sir.”

“don’t you think it’d be a sick compliment to the place?”

“that’s a compliment i never throw around if i can dodge it.”

“so you got a crib in town, i take it?”

mr. darcy bowed.

“i once thought about settin’ up shop in town myself, since i’m all about that elite scene; but i wasn’t 100% sure that london’s vibe would mesh with lady lucas.”

he paused, hoping for a reply; but his buddy wasn’t about to drop one; and at that moment, elizabeth strutted over, and he got hit with this extra gentleman vibe, then shouted to her,—

“my dear miss eliza, why you not vibin’ on the dance floor? mr. darcy, let me put you onto this fly young lady as a hella desirable dance partner. i’m sure you can’t say no to a dance when so much beauty is right in front of you.”

and, grabbing her hand, he was ready to pass it over to mr. darcy, who—lowkey shocked—was not against it, when she straight-up retracted and, with some awkward discomposure, said to sir william,—

“indeed, sir, i ain’t even tryna dance. please don’t get it twisted that i rolled over here just to beg for a partner.”

mr. darcy, all proper and grave, asked if he might earn the honor of her hand, but it was a total nope. elizabeth was set in her ways; and not even sir william’s extra hustle could shake her vibe.

“miss eliza, you slay so hard on the dance floor that it’s straight-up cruel to block me from catching that joy; and even though this dude isn’t normally about that dance life, i’m sure he won’t be mad to hook us up for just a half hour.”

“mr. darcy is all politeness,” said elizabeth with a cheeky smile.

“he def is; but considering the perks, my dear miss eliza, it’s no shock he’s being so chill—cause honestly, who would ever say no to a partner like that?”

elizabeth gave a sly side-eye and spun away. her resistance hadn’t killed her vibe with the gentleman, and he was still thinking of her all cool and content, when miss bingley slid up and said,—

“i can totally guess what’s on your mind.”

“lol, i doubt it.”

“you’re probably thinking about how un-bearable it’d be to spend loads of evenings like this—in such basic society; and fr, i’m totally with you. i’ve never been so heated! the blandness, and yet the noise—the sheer nothingness, but still dripping with self-importance, of all these folks! what i wouldn’t give to hear your hot takes on them!”

“your guess is totally off, i promise. my mind was vibing on something way more lit. i’ve been deep in thought about the epic joy a pair of fine eyes on a gorgeous woman can drop on someone.”

miss bingley instantly locked eyes on his face, and demanded he spill which lady had got him out here dropping these deep lines. mr. darcy shot back, all bold,—

“miss elizabeth bennet.”

“miss elizabeth bennet!” echoed miss bingley. “i’m shook! how long has she been your fave? and like, when do i get to wish you joy?”

“that’s literally the question i was waiting for. a lady’s imagination is on turbo; it leaps from admiration to love, and straight to marriage in a snap. i totally knew you’d be sending me joy.”

“nah, if you’re that deadass about it, consider it sealed. you’re gonna land a charming mother-in-law, for real, and of course she’ll always be chillin’ at pemberley with you.”

he tuned into her chatter with straight-up indifference, while she kept spittin’ her vibes; and once his chill assured her that everything was on the level, her wit just kept flowing.
