the project gutenberg ebook of pride and prejudice

title: pride and prejudice

author: jane austen

release date: june 1, 1998 [ebook #1342] most recently updated: october 29, 2024

language: english

credits: chuck greif and the online distributed proofreading team at http://www.pgdp.net (this file was produced from images available at the internet archive)

preface. list of illustrations. chapter: i., ii., iii., iv., v., vi., vii., viii., ix., x., xi., xii., xiii., xiv., xv., xvi., xvii., xviii., xix., xx., xxi., xxii., xxiii., xxiv., xxv., xxvi., xxvii., xxviii., xxix., xxx., xxxi., xxxii., xxxiii., xxxiv., xxxv., xxxvi., xxxvii., xxxviii., xxxix., xl., xli., xlii., xliii., xliv., xlv., xlvi., xlvii., xlviii., xlix., l., li., lii., liii., liv., lv., lvi., lvii., lviii., lix., lx., lxi.

pride.
and
prejudice

by jane austen, with a preface by george saintsbury and illustrations by hugh thomson

chiswick press:—charles whittingham and co. tooks court, chancery lane, london.

{ix}

yo, walt whitman lowkey dropped a major truth bomb about the diff between “loving by allowance” – like giving someone a nod ‘cause it’s the polite move – and “loving with personal love,” which is all heart-eyes and deep feels. and this isn’t just for dudes and dudettes; it spits straight into the world of books too. for those rare authors who get that full-on personal love vibe, their best work hits way different than the normie stuff we love just ‘cause it’s proper. in the squad of austenians (aka janites) there’s always someone flexing that their novel is the ultimate banger. for real, some peeps say the fresh drip and meme-level humor of northanger abbey – with all its complete finesse and smooth energy – ends up hiding the real tea: its scale is mini and its plot’s basically a parody where leveling up is a struggle. persuasion, which is all chill and low-key, still got its ride-or-die fans who stan its exquisite finesse and vibe. meanwhile, mansfield park? total dramatic meltdown – the hero and heroine are bland AF, and the author, no cap, yeeted off any real romance by saying edmund only slid for fanny ‘cause mary was hella shocking, and that fanny might’ve yeeted with crawford if he’d hustled a bit harder; yet the unmatched rehearsal scenes and mrs. norris and squad still snagged it a solid fanbase, fr fr. sense and sensibility might have the fewest hardcore stans, but it def ain’t lacking in love.

so like, lowkey, i think most competent votes would split between emma and this very book; and if you’re even a tiny bit vibing with miss austen (which might even give you an automatic pass from any “vulgar” shade), then the mainstream verdict would lean toward emma ‘cause it’s bigger, more diverse, and mad popular. the author by then had peeped more of the world and leveled up her convo – even if her signature banter stayed extra unique – with characters like miss bates and the eltons uniting fans everywhere. personally, though, im here to ride hard for pride and prejudice. to me, it’s the most lit, iconic, and quintessential flex of austen’s genius; and in this tight little space, i’m ‘bout to spill the deets.

first up, real talk: this book was originally scribbled down way back in 1796 when miss austen was barely twenty-one, a total rookie move. then it got a glow-up at chawton like fifteen years later, and finally dropped in 1813 – just four years before she yeeted outta this world. now, idk if mixing that fresh, savage youth energy with midlife’s critical edits made it structurally boss, but to me it straight-up outshines the other works. the plot might not be extra elaborate, but it’s as solid as fielding’s, ya feel? not a single character or tea-spilling incident can be chopped without messing up the whole aesthetic. take lydia and wickham’s runaway skrrt – it isn’t a flashy coup like crawford and mrs. rushworth’s gig; it’s tied in tight with the earlier story flow and drops the finale with perfect propriety. every low-key subplot – from jane and bingley’s lovey-dovey saga to mr. collins making an appearance, the hunsford drop, and the derbyshire road trip vibes – all slot in with an unflashy but masterful finesse. unlike that hide-and-seek drama between frank churchill and jane fairfax (which totally spices up emma, but isn’t its main flex), miss austen keeps it 100 here with the natural drama from wickham’s shady recaps of darcy and elizabeth’s awkward glow-up from major hate to full-on love. idk if any director ever tried to stage pride and prejudice, but i bet even if they did, the scenes wouldn’t be extra or in-your-face for the footlights; the subtle character drip is too elite for regular stage vibes. and if anyone tried adapting it, they wouldn’t trip over clunky construction moves that often show up in other novels.

now, lowkey, i know this might sound heretical to some critic cliques, but honestly, structure ain’t the ultimate gift of a novelist. it’s more like the backdrop that lets all his other fire moves shine for the critics; and sometimes, a weak structure can even subconsciously dim those killer vibes. so, a super poorly built story that slays with extra sad or funny characters, or drops dialogue like it’s straight-up art (which is rarer than a viral meme), is way better than a flawless plot being performed by puppets spitting pebbles. and even though miss austen absolutely flexes with her story-crafting skills, i’d lower the rating on pride and prejudice hard if it didn’t pack what i see as pure masterpieces of her dank humor and next-level character creation – pieces that might let in john thorpe, the eltons, mrs. norris, and a couple more, yet still come out on top when it counts.

yo, the drip of miss austen’s humor is so subtle and delicate that it’s easier to catch the vibe than to literally spill it in words, and trust, different peeps will decode it in their own lit ways. to me, it’s more aligned with addison’s chill style than any other flavor of that legendary british meme-genus. sure, differences in plot blueprints, era, topic, and literary norms are obvious; and like, the whole gender diff might not even matter ‘cause there was that clearly feminine spark in “mr. spectator,” while in jane austen’s genius there was also a bold masculine flair (but nothing overly macho, just perfectly balanced). what really ties ‘em together is a ton of quality sub-vibes – mad demureness, extreme micro-attention to detail, dodging loud, over-the-top effects. plus, both addison and miss austen drop a kind of not-even-mean cruelty. peeps who judge with heavy criteria always compare addison’s good vibes with swift’s savage roast, and miss austen’s mellow charm with fielding and smollett’s loud clout, even down to the wild practical jokes that her predecessor, miss burney, casually pulled off without much protest. yet in both mr. addison and miss austen, there’s this low-key but ruthless thrill in roasting a fool. back in the early eighteenth century, a dude could go harder with this roast than a lady in the early nineteenth; and sure, miss austen’s vibes and heart might have dipped when faced with something like that letter from the poor husband in the spectator – who, with all the innocent gusto, detailed how his wife and friend roped him into a game of blind-man’s buff. but then there’s another spectator letter – from this 14-year-old queen who was all about marrying mr. shapely and telling her chosen mentor that “he admires your spectators mightily” – which might’ve been penned by a super ladylike, brainiac lydia bennet back in the day of lydia’s great-grandma; while on the flip side, some (probably extra judgy) have peeped “cynicism” in some of miss austen’s own moves, like her subtle diss of mrs. musgrove’s self-fake regrets over her son. but, no cap, the word “cynical” is way overused, especially when it gets slapped on gentle, side-eyed satire instead of rough-and-tumble barbs. if being cynical means peeping the other side, knowing that life’s motives are always a spicy mix, and that looking extra isn’t the same as being legit – then every dude and dudette who ain’t living in a fool’s paradise is a cynic. and by that measure, miss austen was def one. she might even’ve been that extra level, ‘cause like her own mr. bennet, she got epic joy in dissecting, flexing, and unleashing her fools and basic peeps. i’m convinced she owned that vibe, and i’m not throwing shade on her for it as a woman; if anything, it only boosts her artist cred hardcore.

when it comes to her art, mr. goldwin smith straight up observed that “metaphor has been exhausted in depicting the perfection of it, combined with the narrowness of her field;” and he added that we don’t have to look past her own comparison to the art of a miniature painter. now, to nail that observation, we can’t use “miniature” in the strict sense – think more along the lines of memling on one end of art history and meissonier on the other, not cosway or his squad. and honestly, i ain’t even sure i’d call her work “narrow.” if her world is a microcosm, its cosmic vibes are just as fire as its small scale. she only touches on what she truly felt the call to paint; i seriously doubt she’d craft art for stuff she didn’t vibe with. it’s pretty epic that in two short writing sprints – one lasting around three years and another a bit over five – she dropped six major bangers, with not a single flop. maybe her romantic sauce was a little off – remember, hardly anyone born in her era (the 1770s vibe) could independently drop full-on romantic vibes. even scott needed hills, ballads, and extra metaphysics to crack that classical shell. miss austen was an english girl raised in low-key country chill, back when ladies had to bounce indoors if a white frost threatened their cute kicks, when a sudden cold was the ultimate scare, and every study, move, and vibe was boxed in by crazy rules that mary wollstonecraft was out here calling out with legit common sense over fancy taste. and yeah, miss austen also dipped when that white frost hit her shoes; but i bet she’d still be a solid adventurer even in a pitch-black path.

real talk – even if her knowledge wasn’t mega extensive, she clutched two truths that only pure genius peeps know: humanity and art. on humanity, she was deadass flawless; her dudes, even if on the limited side, were the realest, and her ladies? straight-up “absolute” in the old-school sense. on the art front, if she never chased idealism, her realism is so on point that our modern fake-realism looks totally dead-alive in comparison. just peep any french dude – aside from the late m. de maupassant – and watch him stack brush strokes like he’s trying to hit that full pic, but you end up with nada; you might be lucky if you can salvage a clear vibe from the clutter. with miss austen though, those countless chill, unforced strokes come together like magic. nothing’s off; nothing’s extra. like in this very book, when mr. collins flipped his switch from jane to elizabeth “while mrs. bennet was stirring the fire” (and we all know mrs. bennet would’ve stirred that fire like a boss), and when mr. darcy “brought his coffee-cup back himself” – every move hits with the finesse of swift’s “taller by the breadth of my nail,” which even the half-reluctant thackeray couldn’t help but stan with straight-up admiration. for real, as wild as it sounds, i’d put miss austen right up there with swift on some moves, just like i compared her to addison on others.

this swiftian drip shows up hard in this novel in none other than the legendary, irreplaceable mr. collins. mr. collins is next level; way bigger than anything addison ever dropped – almost on par with fielding or even swift himself. they say no one’s ever been like him. but first off,{xvii} he’s got that swift vibe – he’s alive, un-fading, and he’s more real than a hundred prime ministers, archbishops, and, like, deep-thought philosophers combined. secondly, it’s kinda wild to claim that a true mr. collins was impossible or just didn’t exist at the end of the eighteenth century. check this out – we even got a spoiled first draft or a flop study of him in john dashwood. you see the formality, the underbred vibe, the mean energy – but that portrait’s only half lit, kinda off. mr. collins, on the other hand, is 100% natural and alive. for all that “miniature” talk, there’s something huge in the way a whole slice of humanity – especially that 18th-century flavor with its philistinism, well-meaning but stuck-in-its-ways morality, petty formality, extra respect for rank, materialism, and selfish vibes – gets put on blast. i can’t front that even one speech or move from this iconic dude can’t be real, and i wouldn’t be shocked if tonnes of his crazy words and actions were historically legit.

but yo, the epicness of mr. collins wouldn’t hit this hard if his creator hadn’t masterfully hyped up mr. bennet and lady catherine de bourgh around him. lady catherine, like mr. collins, gets called extra sometimes. maybe there’s a very faint hint of truth in that charge; but to me, it’s barely even there. even now, i bet you can find peeps – especially the ladies, not even of high nobility – who are as extra, self-obsessed, and trashing on good manners as lady catherine. a hundred years back, an earl’s daughter – the lady powerful (or, like, bountiful if you will) of some far-off country parish, rich, long free from marital chains, etc. – had all the time to perfect these wild traits that you rarely see today. as for mr. bennet, miss austen, mr. darcy, and even miss elizabeth herself, they were, i’m lowkey thinking, super hard on him for his “impropriety.” his wife was, like, a lost cause from day one; and unless he offed her or himself, there was literally no way for a man of sense and spirit to fix it except with that ironic twist. from every angle, he’s above reproach – except maybe for a natural, understandable helplessness when lydia’s skrrt went down – and his zingers are some of the most delightfully meta humor we’ve seen; the kind that makes you laugh with someone, not at them – a vibe even miss austen managed to drop on her characters. it’s hard to say if he’s the most chill when dishing with his wife or when schooling mr. collins; but generally, the world’s been right to crown his consolation gold over his wife’s gloomy ranting like “my dear, do not give way to such gloomy thoughts. let us hope for better things. let us flatter ourselves that i may be the survivor;” and his cheeky query to his massive cousin about whether mr. collins’ flattery towards lady catherine “comes off the impulse of the moment,{xix} or is the result of previous deep dives?” these are the moments that hit readers with shock and sweet thrills – the same kind that swift, fielding, and even thackeray drop – a vibe unmatched by any other english fiction drops outside these four legends.

the low-key goodness of the minor peeps in pride and prejudice has been mentioned already, and it’s super hard to break down all their dope qualities in this tiny space. mrs. bennet we’ve just skimmed, and it’s tough to say if she’s hilariously on point or ridiculously true-to-life. same goes for kitty and lydia; but it ain’t every genius who can perfectly split the effects of brainless foolishness and common smarts at different life stages. with mary, miss austen didn’t even go all out, though she was extra savage to her too; not just in the main text, but—as we peep from those dope traditional add-ons that mr. austen leigh dropped on us—in totally dooming her to marry “one of mr. philips’s clerks.” the habit of copying and then overplaying moral feels, of vibing too long in public, is obviously a major sin; but maybe poor mary was just the scapegoat for all that blue-stocking drama in that ford-yce lectured era. either way, it’s hard not to throw some respect and a special kind of love (affection and respect, for real) her way— kinda like how you can’t help but respect mr. collins when she drops the moral on lydia’s epic tumble. 



the bingleys and the gardiners and the lucases, miss darcy and miss de bourgh, jane, wickham, and the rest, gotta slide by without major clapbacks—beyond a quick note that charlotte lucas (her egregious papa, though he’s kinda delish, is lowkey on the cringe side between comedy and farce) is a wicked study in basic drab vibes, and that wickham (despite miss austen’s extra hesitation when dealing with young dudes) is a not-much-less iconic sketch in a totally different kind of drab. only a straight-up genius could’ve yeeted charlotte into being exactly what she is—serving cleverness without being extra—and wickham into being his shady self without handing him off with a cheap, don juanish glow or a rep that’s hella trash. but yo, the hero and the heroine aren’t just background filters to be skipped.

darcy has always been, in my real-talk, the absolute mvp and most lit of miss austen’s heroes; the only other contender is henry tilney, whose cameo is so minor and basic it barely even clocks in. some peeps have even thrown shade that his pride was extra – unnatural in its initial flex and then soft when it gave way – and that him catching feelings at all was pretty sus. nah fam, i’m not buying that diss. darcy’s own rundown of how his pride got all pampered is perfectly logical and totes sufficient; nothing, psychologically speaking, could have triggered its comeback to proper status more than the savage wake-up call of elizabeth’s shade-throwing refusal, acting on a naturally extra generous vibe. nothing in even our austen is more delicately nuanced than the glow-up in his energy when he randomly bumped into her on the pemberley grounds. if he had been a total stuck-up prig or a clownish coxcomb, he might’ve been salty over the rejection or lowkey sus that the girl was out there husband-hunting. him not doing either totally vibes with a dude who’s spoiled in common sense but not emotionally wrecked, and is crazy in love. as for being in love, elizabeth dished out a breakdown of the feels as on-point as darcy’s self-analysis of his own unrepentant state—except, obvs, she conveniently left out her personal charm bonus.

the secret sauce of that charm is something loads of dudes and a bunch of ladies (from miss austen down to the lowest meme level) have all felt – and like most epic vibes, it’s more about catching the feel than breakin’ it down in a nerdy flowchart. elizabeth, for sure, is in the allegro/allegra squad of venus’s army. miss austen was always lowkey tight-lipped about describing her own beauties; aside from the fact that she’s blessed with fine eyes, a flicker of brightness (and yeah, a sometimes lit complexion) plus being not too tall, no one’s really dishing on her looks. but what sets her apart from all those other hyped-up heroines is, first off, her mad cleverness—basically, strong-minded in the best way even if that word sometimes gets thrown around as a diss—and secondly, her complete lack of bad vibes despite her savage propensity to roast and her razor-sharp tongue. elizabeth can drop a roast as epic as the ones she receives, but she never goes for the low blow first and never “scratches” back. sure, a couple of her early zingers might sound a bit old-school and give off a tiny extra sass, but honestly, that’s nothing. when she’s in full boss mode – like during that major proposal sitch with darcy (which, tbh, is the ultimate climax of this whole epic saga) and when she absolutely claps back against lady catherine – she’s unstoppable. plus, she’s just real, no cap. she doesn’t front or fake about how personally wrecked she felt by darcy’s first cringey attitude. (btw, any beef saying that her rough-around-the-edges speech is overdone is straight-up bogus; similar harsh vibes, maybe even less stiff but more crude, were being dropped in a bunch of ballrooms that very year by folks who should be just as polished as darcy.) and she lets the shade thrown at jane and the outright disrespect to her fam fuel her righteous ire in the healthiest way possible.

but fr, none of that completely explains her vibe—which, if you treat beauty as the baseline for every heroine, is extra spiced up by her playful spirit, killer wit, warm and natural aura, plus a fearless edge that’s hella rare among gals of her kind and age. nearly every other chick would be left tongue-tied in absolute awe of the majestic darcy; almost all would be heart-thumping and jittery at the thought of even cheeky proposals from the swoon-worthy wickham. elizabeth, with zero cringe, zero extra “new woman” posturing, naturally rocks what today’s top-tier (not “new” but straight-up classic) women earn from real-life experience and schooling—a complete freedom from the notion that every dude can flex and bully her, and most will if they get the chance. she isn’t even a smidge “impudent and mannish grown up;” she’s got neither overwhelming sensitivity nor that nasty kind of fake niceness. back in miss austen’s day, the standard for passion was so closely tied with putting on either or both of these traits that she never actually made elizabeth seem extra mushy on the outside. but i’m 100% convinced that she’d have been down to marry darcy just as heartily without pemberley as with it—and anyone with half a brain reading between the lines can see that the love chats in the final chapters aren’t as frosty as the della cruscans of yore might’ve thought (and maybe still do).

and really, what’s the point of overanalyzing charm? – it just is. it’s way more valuable to sweat the lack of charm in places it’s missing than to try to break down why it’s there. in the novels of the past hundred years, there’s a mega lineup of young ladies who’d be an absolute vibe to fall for; at least five that, in my honest opinion, no dude with proper taste and spirit can help but fall for. in order, they’re elizabeth bennet, diana vernon, argemone lavington, beatrix esmond, and barbara grant. i’d be hella smitten with beatrix and argemone; and for chill, occasional hangouts, i’d probably vibe with diana and barbara. but when it comes to living together and tying the knot hard-core, none of those four can even come close to the goddess that is elizabeth.

george saintsbury. {xxiv}

{xxv}

{1}

chapter i.

it is a truth universally acknowledged, like the dankest viral meme, that a single man ballin’ with a fat fortune is lowkey on the hunt for a wifey.

no matter how little his feels or opinions are when he first slides into a new neighborhood, this truth is so deep in the minds of the local fam that they instantly see him as prime property for one of their daughters.

“my dear mr. bennet,” his lady chirped one day, “you heard that netherfield park got snatched up at last?”

mr. bennet shot back, “nah, i hadn’t peeped it.”

“but it totally is,” she clapped, “mrs. long just rolled through and spilled all the tea.”

mr. bennet left it on read.

“don’t ya wanna know who flexed and took it?” his wife demanded, all impatient.

“spill the deets, i’m all ears.”

“he dipped down to check out the spot.”

that was invitation enough.

“omg, babe, you gotta know—mrs. long says netherfield’s been scooped up by a young dude with major north-of-england cash; he rolled in on monday in a chaise-and-four, scoped the crib, and was so stoked he sealed the deal with mr. morris on the spot; he’s set to claim the pad before michaelmas, and his squad’s moving in by the end of next week.”

“what’s his name?”

“bingley.”

“is he hitched or still solo?”

“oh, totally solo, my dear! a single dude with mad fortune—like, pulling in four or five grand a year. what a glow-up that would be for our girls!”

“how does that even affect them?”

“my dear mr. bennet, how can you be so extra? you know i’m lowkey plotting to get one of our girls hitched to him.”

“is that his whole vibe for settling here?”

“vibe? lol, nonsense—seriously, he’s probs gonna catch feels for one of ‘em, so you gotta roll up to see him as soon as he lands.”

“i don’t see the need for that. you and the girls can go—or better yet, send them on their own, which might actually be a win; since you’re as fine as any of them, mr. bingley might end up vibing with you the most.”

“omg, babe, you’re flattering me. i’ve had my beauty days, but i ain’t tryna be extra now. when a woman has five grown-up daughters, she should chill with obsessing over her own looks.”

“in cases like that, a woman usually doesn’t even have much extra glow to worry about.”

“but, my dear, you absolutely must go see mr. bingley when he crashes into the neighborhood.”

“i’m booked, i assure you.”

“but think about your daughters—imagine what a major upgrade it’d be for one of them. sir william and lady lucas are already hyped to come just for that reason; normally, they wouldn’t even bother with new faces. seriously, you must go, ‘cause if you don’t, we won’t even have a shot to visit him.”

“you’re being too extra, for real. i bet mr. bingley will be stoked to see you; and i’ll even slide him a note vouching for him marrying any one of our girls—though i gotta throw in a sweet plug for my little lizzy.”

“i’m telling you, don’t do that. lizzy ain’t any better than the rest—she’s not even half as cute as jane, or as chiller as lydia. yet you always play favorites.”

“hon, none of 'em are particularly epic; they’re all pretty basic, but lizzy’s got a spark that outshines her sisters.”

“mr. bennet, how can you roast your own kids like this? you literally live for vexing me. you got zero chill for my poor nerves.”

“you got it twisted, my dear. i hold mad respect for your nerves—they’ve been my ride-or-die for, like, twenty years now.”

“oh, you don’t know the struggle i go through.”

“but i hope you get past it and live to see tons of dudes making four grand a year roll into our hood.”

“it’s useless if twenty of them show up and you still ghost them.”

“trust, my dear, when there are twenty, imma hit up every single one.”

mr. bennet was such a wild mix of quick wit, savage sarcasm, chill reserve, and random mood swings that even after twenty-three years, his wife still couldn’t decode his vibe. her mind was way more basic—a true woman of limited insight, minimal tea, and sketchy mood swings. whenever she got upset, she swore she was all in her nerves. her entire life revolved around getting her daughters married, and her safe space was all about visits and juicy gossip.

mr. & mrs. bennet

[copyright 1894 by george allen.]

{6}

i hope mr. bingley will like it.

chapter ii.

r. bennet was one of the first to roll up on mr. bingley. he’d always planned on visiting him, even though he kept telling his wife he wouldn’t go; and until after the visit was done, she had zero clue. then the tea was spilled like so. catching sight of his second daughter busy fixing up a hat, he suddenly slid over with:

“i hope mr. bingley will like it, lizzy.”

“we really don’t know what mr. bingley is vibing with,” her mom snapped resentfully, “since we’re not even supposed to visit.”

“but you’re forgetting, mamma,” elizabeth fired back, “we’re gonna meet him at the assemblies, and mrs. long promised to intro him.”

“i seriously doubt mrs. long will even do that. she’s got her own two nieces to fuss over. she’s a total selfish, fake queen, and i got no love for her.”

“i feel ya,” mr. bennet added, “and i’m glad you’re not banking on her coming through for you.”

mrs. bennet didn’t even bother replying; but she couldn’t hold it in and started scolding one of her daughters.

“stop coughing up a storm, kitty, for real—have some compassion for my nerves! you're literally shredding them.”

“kitty can’t even with her coughs,” her father remarked, “she times them so wrong.”

“i don’t cough just to clown, okay?” kitty snapped, totally agitated. “so, when’s your next ball, lizzy?”

“tomorrow fortnight.”

“ay, that’s how it goes,” her mom cried out, “and mrs. long won’t be back until the day before; so she literally can’t intro him ‘cause she won’t even know him herself.”

“then, my dear, lean on your bestie and intro mr. bingley to her.”

“impossible, mr. bennet, seriously impossible when i don’t even know him myself; how can you be so damn teasing?”

“i respect your caution. a fortnight barely scratches the surface for getting to know someone. you can’t really size up a dude in just two weeks. but if we don’t take the leap, someone else totally will; and honestly, mrs. long and her nieces deserve a shot too; so if you’re not down for the job, i’ll just handle it.”

the girls stared at their dad while mrs. bennet could only mutter, “nonsense, nonsense!”

“what’s up with that emphatic ‘nonsense’?” he exploded. “do you seriously think these formal intros and all this extra hype are just nonsense? i can’t fully agree with you there. what’s your take, mary? you’re known as a deep thinker who’s always reading big books and scribbling notes.”

mary tried to drop some wisdom, but got totally tongue-tied.

“while mary’s sorting out her thoughts,” mr. bennet continued, “let’s get back to mr. bingley.”

“i’m so over mr. bingley,” his wife shrieked.

“bummer to hear that; but why didn’t you say so earlier? had i known this morning, i definitely wouldn’t have swung by. it’s super unlucky, but now that i’ve already made the call, we gotta roll with it.”

the ladies’ shocked reactions were exactly what he aimed for—mrs. bennet’s reaction being the most extra of all; though once the initial hype died down, she started going on about how she’d known it all along.

“how awesome it was in you, my dear mr. bennet! i knew i’d eventually sway you. i was 100% sure you loved your girls too much to pass up an epic hookup. i’m so stoked! and it’s such a killer joke that you went this morning and kept it totally on the down-low until now.”

“now, kitty, cough all you want,” mr. bennet quipped, then bounced out of the room, clearly drained from his wife’s rapturous overflow.

“you guys have the best dad ever,” she cooed once the door shut. “i don’t know how you’ll ever repay him for his kindness—or me, for that matter. at our age, making fresh connections every day isn’t exactly a vibe; but for you, we’d go to any lengths. lydia, my love, even though you’re the baby, i’m betting mr. bingley will snag a dance with you at the next ball.”

“oh,” lydia retorted boldly, “i’m not even sweating it; just ‘cause i’m the youngest doesn’t mean i’m not the tallest.”

the rest of the evening was spent hyping up when he’d return mr. bennet’s visit and plotting when to slide an invite for dinner.

“i’m the tallest”

he rode a black horse.

chapter iii.

ot all that mrs. bennet, even with the full squad of her five daughters in tow, could haplessly grill her husband about mr. bingley, was enough to extract from him any legit deets about the guy. they bombarded him with straight-up questions, wild guesses, and far-out assumptions; but he totally dodged every trap they set—forcing them, at last, to settle for the second-hand tea from their neighbor, lady lucas. and her report? super positive. sir william was all kinds of hyped about him. he was youthful af, drop-dead handsome, chill as heck, and, to top it all, planning to roll up to the next assembly with a major posse. nothing could be more fire! loving to dance was a straight-up ritual in the hustle to fall in love; and the hype for mr. bingley’s heart was real.

“if i can only peep one of my daughters happily locked down at netherfield,” mrs. bennet told her husband, “and all the rest secured in solid marriages, i’ll be living that perfect life.”

within a few days, mr. bingley bounced back with a visit to mr. bennet, chilling for about ten minutes in his library. he was lowkey hoping to catch a glimpse of the famed young ladies everyone was raving about—but all he got was the dad. the girls, however, had extra luck, since from an upper window they scoped out that he was rocking a blue coat and riding a slick black horse.

shortly after, a dinner invite was sent out; and mrs. bennet had already mapped out a killer menu that would flex her housekeeping skills—until an RSVP dropped that put all her plans on ice. mr. bingley had got called up to town the very next day, meaning he couldn’t accept their invite, etc. mrs. bennet was totally shook. she couldn’t imagine what kinda biz got him in town straight after touching down in hertfordshire; and she started stressing that he might just be a perpetual wanderer, never planting his flag at netherfield like he should. lady lucas cooled her jitters a bit by hinting that he was probably off to london just to grab a massive party for the ball; and soon word spread that mr. bingley was planning to roll in with twelve ladies and seven dudes to the assembly. the girls were lowkey bummed by that excess of ladies; but then, the day before the ball, they got the tea that instead of twelve, he’d only pulled six from london—his five sisters and a cousin. and when the party finally hit the assembly room, it boiled down to a mere five: mr. bingley, his two sisters, the hubby of the eldest, and one extra young dude.

mr. bingley was all kinds of good-looking and major gentleman vibes: sporting a chill, friendly countenance with low-key, unaffected manners. his sisters were total stunners, dripping with high-key fashion. his brother-in-law, mr. hurst, just had that basic “dude” look; but then his boy mr. darcy instantly stole the room’s spotlight with his tall, fine frame, sharp features, noble aura, and the rumor mill that within five minutes of his entrance, word was out that he was pulling in ten thousand a year. the dudes declared him a total manly icon, the ladies raved that he was hella hotter than mr. bingley, and he got mad props for about half the night—until his stiff demeanor flipped the script on his popularity; he was soon unmasked as being mockingly proud, way above his squad and even above simple pleasure; and not even his massive derbyshire estate could rescue him from sporting a downright forbidding, disagreeable mug, making him unworthy to even compare with his pal.



mr. bingley was out here leveling up, getting tight with all the main squad in the room: he was mad lit and unfiltered, busting moves at every dance, and lowkey salty that the ball dipped way too early – even dropping that he’d throw his own epic bash at netherfield. these chill vibes speak for themselves, no cap.

what a complete 180 compared to his buddy! mr. darcy only did a one-time spin with mrs. hurst and a one-and-done with miss bingley, straight up ghosting any chance to meet other chicas, and spent the rest of the night roaming around like a lone wolf, chatting only with his own crew. his vibe was set in stone: he was the proudest, most disagreeable dude ever, and everyone was lowkey praying he’d never crash their party again. and mrs. bennet? she was extra savage – already hating his whole energy, which got even worse when he dissed one of her daughters.

elizabeth bennet, due to the absolute shortage of proper gentlemen, had no choice but to sit through two dances; and during that sesh, mr. darcy was posted close enough for her to catch his convo with mr. bingley, who bounced over from the dance for a hot minute to drag his bro onto the floor.

“yo, darcy,” mr. bingley hollered, “you gotta dance, bruh. i can’t stand watching you stand solo like some lame statue. you seriously need to get in on this.”

“nah, i’m not down. you know i straight up despise dancing unless i’m tight with my partner. at a bash like this, it’d be straight-up unbearable. your sisters are booked, and every other chica in the room is just a major penalty for me to dance with.”

“bro, i ain’t that picky!” cried bingley. “i swear on my honor, i’ve never met so many chill, bomb-ass girls in my life as tonight – and there’s a whole squad of them who are crazy pretty.”

“you’re only spinning with the one fine chick in the room,” mr. darcy deadpanned, eyeballing the eldest miss bennet.

“oh man, she’s the most fuego babe i’ve ever seen! but yo, there’s another sis chillin’ right behind you who’s mad pretty and, i dare say, super agreeable. let me get my partner to slide over and introduce you.”

“she’s tolerable.”

[copyright 1894 by george allen.]

“which one you mean?” he snapped, turning around to peep elizabeth for a sec – catching her eye, he quickly looked away and coldly said, “she’s tolerable: but not hot enough to tempt me; and i’m not in the mood to give any attention to young ladies who get snubbed by other guys. you best bounce back to your partner and soak up her vibes, cuz you’re straight-up wasting your time with me.”

mr. bingley took the hint and dipped. mr. darcy walked off, and elizabeth was left with zero warm fuzzies for him. still, she later recounted the tea with mad spirit to her pals, since her vibe was all about the silly and absurd.

the night overall was pretty lit for the whole fam. mrs. bennet saw her oldest daughter get major clout from the netherfield crew. mr. bingley danced with her twice, and his sisters even threw some props her way. jane was all smiles – soaking up the kudos as much as mama could be, though in a quieter, more chill manner. elizabeth totally caught on to jane’s hype. mary even got named by miss bingley as the most accomplished queen in the neighborhood; and catherine and lydia were lucky enough to always snag a dance partner – which, honestly, was all the ball etiquette they cared about. they all bounced back in high spirits to longbourn, the village where they reigned supreme. when they got back, they found mr. bennet still up, nose-deep in a book, totally oblivious to time; and tonight, he was mad curious about the epic events that had set everyone’s expectations on fire. he had kinda hoped that all of his wife’s extra opinions on that snakey stranger would be canceled out; but it turned out he was about to get a whole different dose of tea.

“oh, my dear mr. bennet,” she chirped as she breezed into the room, “we just had the dopest evening ever – an epic ball that was straight-up fire. i wish you’d been there. jane was getting mad love, nothing could compare. everyone couldn’t stop raving about how on point she looked; and mr. bingley legit called her a total stunner, dancing with her twice. like, for real: he actually hit her up for a second dance – and she was the only one in the whole room he bothered with a round two. first, he went for miss lucas. i was so heated watching him pair up with her; but, like, he didn’t give her any serious props at all – honestly, no one can, you know – and he was clearly snapped on jane as she was winding down her dance. so he slid into a convo, asked who she was, netted an intro, and then kept scoring dance rounds with her – then, for his third round he paired with miss king, the fourth with maria lucas, the fifth again with jane, the sixth with lizzy, and then even the boulanger––”

“if he had any heart for me,” her husband snapped impatiently, “he wouldn’t have danced with half the room! for god’s sake, cut it out with the talk about his dance partners. i swear, i wish he’d just twist his ankle on that first dance!”

“oh, my dear,” mrs. bennet continued, “i am totally smitten with him. he’s excessively handsome! and his sisters? they’re pure charm. i’ve never seen anything more elegant than their dresses. i dare say the lace on mrs. hurst’s gown is, like, a whole vibe––”

and then she got cut off again. mr. bennet straight-up protested any more chatter about fancy finery. so mrs. bennet had to switch gears and then spilled the tea, with extra bitterness and a dash of exaggeration, about mr. darcy’s shockingly rude behavior.

“but i promise you,” she added, “lizzy isn’t really losing out by not vibing with him; he’s, like, the most disagreeable, horrid dude ever – not even worth a smile. so extra and so full of himself, there was absolutely no way anyone could put up with him! he wandered here and there, deadass thinking he was the greatest – not even cute enough to dance with! i wish you’d been there, my dear, to drop one of your savage set-downs on him. i honestly detest the man.”

chap. iv.

then, with jane and elizabeth on their own, jane – who had been playing it safe with her mr. bingley praise earlier – confessed to her sister just how much she was lowkey crushing on him.

“he is literally the blueprint for a young man,” she declared, “sensible, chill, and hella lively; i’ve never peeped such smooth, happy manners – so effortless, with the dopest good breeding!”

“plus, he’s a total snack,” elizabeth replied, “and any young man should be all that too if he can swing it. his character just ties it all together.”

“i was super shook when he asked me to dance a second time. i wasn’t even expecting that level of compliment.”

“didn’t i? i totally got the same vibes for you. but that’s one huge diff between us. compliments always catch you off guard, while i’m straight chill about it. like, what could be more natural than him asking you again? he obviously peeped that you were like five times prettier than every other girl in the room – and that wasn’t even thanks to his fancy moves. yeah, he’s mad agreeable, and i won’t stop you from liking him – you’ve been down with way dumber peeps before.”

“dear lizzy!”

“oh, you’re way too chill when it comes to liking folks. you literally never see a flaw in anyone. in your eyes, everyone’s pure gold. i’ve never even heard you throw shade at a single soul.”

“i try not to rush into judging anyone; but i always keep it 100 with what i think.”

“i know you do – and that’s what blows my mind. with your solid sense, you're honestly blind to all the goofy antics of others! fake, over-the-top honesty is everywhere, but to be genuinely candid without the extra flex—to just boost everyone’s good vibes and ignore all the negatives—that’s a next level move that only you can pull off. and btw, you’re into this dude’s sisters too, right? because, honestly, their manners just don’t match his.”

“nah, not really at first; but they turn out to be pretty dope once you actually talk to them. like, miss bingley’s gonna be living with her bro and running his crib, and i’d be totally shocked if we didn’t end up with a charming neighbor in her.”

elizabeth just sat there in silence, not buying their whole vibe. their behavior at the party was clearly not curated to impress everyone; and with her sharper eyes and way lower tolerance than her sister – plus a judgment totally free of self-flattery – she wasn’t feeling them at all. sure, they were fine ladies when they were in the mood, able to drop witty banter and be super agreeable when they wanted, but overall, they were just too extra and full of themselves. they were kinda fine-looking, schooled at one of the original private academies in town, rolling with a twenty thousand pound fortune, constantly overspending and hanging with high-status peeps – so they legit had every right to be all high and mighty about themselves and, honestly, lowkey trash everyone else. they came from a straight-up respectable fam in the north of england, which was stamped on their memories way harder than the fact that their bucks came from trade.

mr. bingley snagged property worth nearly a hundred grand from his dad, who had planned to buy an estate but couldn’t stick around long enough to do it. mr. bingley had the same dreams, sometimes even picking his county like a boss; but now that he’s rockin’ a dope house and the full manor lifestyle, the homies who knew his super chilled vibe were lowkey wondering if he’d just spend the rest of his days vibing at netherfield, leaving the next gen to handle the buying.

his sis squad was mega hyped for him to score his own estate; but even though he was just a tenant at that point, miss bingley was totally down to preside over his table; and mrs. hurst, who married a dude all about style over cash, was just as willing to claim his crib as her own when it suited her. mr. bingley was barely even two when an unexpected rec led him to check out netherfield house. he scoped it out, peered into its main rooms for like half an hour, got mad impressions of the sitch and the key spaces – totally vibing with the owner’s hype – and snapped it up immediately.

between him and darcy, there was a rock-solid friendship, even though they were polar opposites. bingley was all about darcy’s chill, open, and flexible vibe, even if his own style was a total flip side; bolstered by darcy’s high regard, bingley had mad trust in him and high-key valued his opinions. when it came to smarts, darcy was on another level. the guy was both super cocky, reserved, and extra picky; and although his manners were proper af, they weren’t exactly welcoming. in that arena, his buddy had the upper hand. bingley was basically a magnet, getting love wherever he rolled up, while darcy was constantly stepping on toes.

the way they dished the tea on the meryton assembly was spot on. bingley swore he’d never met more chill peeps or hotter girls in his entire life – everyone was mad kind and attentive; it was all loose vibes, zero stiffness; he got to know the entire room in no time – and when it came to miss bennet, he couldn’t even imagine a more angelic presence. darcy, on the other hand, saw a bunch of peeps lacking both beauty and style – none of whom sparked the tiniest bit of interest or pleasure in him. he did admit miss bennet was pretty, but she, like, smiled way too damn much.

mrs. hurst and her sis were cool with that; they still mad respected her and were like, “she’s such a sweet girl,” and even said they wouldn’t be opposed to getting to know her better. so miss bennet got stamped as a total sweetheart, and their brother felt totally justified in thinking of her however he wanted.

chap. v.

within a short stroll from longbourn, there was a fam that the bennets were hella tight with. sir william lucas used to be in the biz back in meryton, where he made a decent stack and even leveled up to knighthood by dropping an epic speech to the king during his mayor time. maybe that whole honor thing hit him extra hard – he got so over his biz and the tiny market town life that he bailed with his fam to a crib about a mile away, which came to be known as lucas lodge; a spot where he could flex his own importance and, unburdened by work, just be all civil and friendly with everyone. even though he was mega hyped about his rank, it didn’t turn him into a snob – he was all about giving mad attention to every single person. naturally chill, friendly, and super obliging, his appearance at st. james’s had him looking ultra courteous.

lady lucas was an absolute gem – not so extra that she couldn’t be an epic neighbor for mrs. bennet. they had a bunch of kids, and the oldest – a smart, savvy young woman around twenty-seven – was elizabeth’s ride-or-die friend.

it was an absolute must that the miss lucases and the miss bennets link up to spill all the tea on the ball; and the morning after the assembly, the lucases rolled up to longbourn to share every deet.

“you kicked off the night in style, charlotte,” mrs. bennet said, keeping it all civil with miss lucas. “you were mr. bingley’s numero uno pick.”

“yeah; but he lowkey vibed more with his second pick.”

“oh, you mean jane, i guess – since he danced with her twice. like, obviously he was crushing on her – i seriously think he was, i heard some tea about it – though i can’t even remember the details… something about mr. robinson, maybe.”

“maybe you’re referring to what i caught when i was eavesdropping on him and mr. robinson – didn’t i spill that to you? mr. robinson was asking how he felt about our meryton hangs, wondering if there were a bunch of hot girls in the room, and which one was the prettiest; and he shot back instantly, ‘oh, the eldest miss bennet, no cap – there’s just no debate on that.’”

“omg, seriously! that was mad decisive – it totally seems like something went down – but, like, it might all end up being nothing, you know.”

“my eavesdroppings were way more on point than yours, eliza,” charlotte clapped back. “mr. darcy ain’t nearly as worth tuning into as his buddy, right? poor eliza – being only just tolerable isn’t enough for you!”

“please, don’t go getting lizzy all riled up over his lame treatment, ‘cause he’s the most disagreeable dude ever – it’d be a total bummer to be on his good side. mrs. long dropped the tea last night that he sat next to her for a whole half hour without even opening his lips.”

“without once opening his lips”

[copyright 1894 by george allen.]

“you totally sure about that, ma’am? maybe there’s a little mix-up?” said jane. “i swear, i caught mr. darcy chatting with her, no cap.”

“yup, because she finally asked him what he thought of netherfield, and he had to answer; but girl, she said he came off super pissed about being bothered.”

“miss bingley clued me in,” said jane, “that he never really talks unless he’s with his tight circle. with those peeps, he’s actually hella chill.”

“i don’t buy any of it, my dear. if he were that chill, he’d’ve talked to mrs. long. but i can totally guess – everyone’s saying he’s all about that pride life, and i bet he caught wind that mrs. long doesn’t roll in a proper carriage, so she had to show up in some basic hack chaise.”

“i’m cool with him staying silent with mrs. long,” said miss lucas, “but i was lowkey hoping he’d dance with eliza.”

“next time, lizzy,” her mama declared, “i’d totally skip dancing with him if i were you.”

“i swear, ma’am, i promise i’ll never dance with him.”

“his pride,” said miss lucas, “doesn’t bug me as much as pride usually does, ‘cause there’s a legit reason for it. like, you can’t really be shocked that a fine dude with a bomb fam, fortune, and all the perks thinks he’s the bee’s knees. honestly, he totally deserves to be proud.”

“that’s so true,” replied elizabeth, “and i might’ve forgiven his pride if he hadn’t totally crushed mine.”

“pride,” observed mary with her deep, solid vibes, “is such a common flop, i seriously believe. from everything i’ve read, i’m convinced it’s super common – like, human nature is basically wired for it, and hardly anyone escapes that self-love, whether it’s real or imagined. vanity and pride, they ain’t the same, even though people use them like twins. one can be proud without being vain – pride is all about how we see ourselves, and vanity is about what we want others to see.”

“if i had stacks like mr. darcy,” shouted a young lucas who rolled in with his sisters, “i wouldn’t give two daps about my pride. i’d be chillin’ with a pack of foxhounds and guzzling a bottle of wine every single day!”

“then you’d be knocking back way more than you should,” said mrs. bennet, “and if i caught you at it, i’d straight-up snatch your bottle away.”

the kid protested, like, “nah, you totally shouldn’t,” but mrs. bennet kept on declaring that she would – and that whole debate wrapped up just with the visit.

{27}

chap. vi.

the ladies of longbourn soon popped over to netherfield. the visit went down proper. miss bennet’s super chill manners won over mrs. hurst and miss bingley; and even though the mom was, like, totally intolerable and the younger sisters weren’t even worth chatting up, the two eldest still got a vibe for being known better. jane totally soaked up that attention with pure joy; but elizabeth still peeped how high and mighty they were with everyone – including her own sis – and just couldn’t get on board with them. even though their random kindness to jane had some value, it was almost certainly all fueled by their brother’s mad crush on her. like, every time they met, it was obvious he was lowkey admiring jane; and to elizabeth it was just as clear that jane was slowly giving in to that early crush, almost like she was falling in love – though elizabeth was secretly glad it wouldn’t become public, since jane had that unshakeable strength, chill demeanor, and constant bright energy that would keep nosy peeps in check. she spilled this tea to her friend, miss lucas.

“maybe it’s chill,” replied charlotte, “to sometimes pull a fast one on the public like that; but being so guarded can backfire. if a woman hides her feels so well from the one she’s into, she might miss her shot at locking him down – and it’d be a major bummer to have everyone equally kept in the dark. there’s so much gratitude and vanity mixed into every vibe that it isn’t smart to let things just be. we all start off free – a lil’ crush is totally natural – but honestly, almost none of us have the heart to be truly in love without a little push. like, nine times out of ten, a woman should show more affection than she’s actually feeling. bingley totally digs your sister, no doubt; but if she doesn’t help boost his vibe, he might just stick with that level of like.”

“but she does help him on, as much as her nature allows. if i can peep how she feels about him, then he’d be a total dummy if he didn’t catch on.”

“remember, eliza, he doesn’t have the deets on jane’s vibe as well as you do.”

“but if a chick is into a dude and doesn’t even try to hide it, he’s gonna figure it out eventually.”

“maybe he’s gotta, if he catches enough of her drip. but even tho bingley and jane are bumping into each other on the reg, they never really vibe for hours on end; and since they’re always getting their squad lit at these massive mixed-up ragers, there’s literally no way every minute’s spent just chattin’ with each other. so jane’s gotta milk every 30-minute window to snag his attention. once she’s got him in her clout, there’s mad time to fall head-over-heels, no cap.{29}”

“yo, your plan is fire,” replied elizabeth, “where the only deal is gettin’ hitched to someone solid; and if i was on a mission to score a rich hubby, or any hubby for that matter, bet, i’d be on that grind too. but nah, these aren’t jane’s vibes; she ain’t messing with it on purpose. right now, she can’t even tell how deep her feels run or if they even make sense. she’s only been peepin’ him for like two weeks. she rocked four dances with him at meryton; she peeped him one morning at his crib, and then smashed dinner with him four times. that’s not enough tea to decode his whole mood.”

“not like you’re sayin’ it. if she’d just been chowing down with him, she’d only know if he was down for grub; but remember, they also kicked it together for four whole nights — and four nights can drop a hella lot of deets.”

“yeah: these four evenings let them figure out that both are vibin’ with vingt-un over commerce, but aside from that major flex, i don’t think they’ve uncovered much else about his key traits.”

“alright,” said charlotte, “i’m rootin’ for jane 100%; and if she locked it in with him tomorrow, i’d say she’d have as much luck as if she spent a whole year dissecting his drip. marriage happiness is basically a roll of the dice. even if both folks are super clued into each other’s vibes or are matching like twin memes from the start, it doesn’t boost the happy feels one bit. eventually, they’re gonna diverge enough to have their own share of drama; honestly, it’s better to keep your receipt on the flaws of the person you’re stuck with to a bare minimum.{30}”

“yo, charlotte, you crack me up; but that’s straight-up bogus. you know it’s whack, and like, you’d never even roll that way yourself.”

while elizabeth was lowkey busy watching mr. bingley flex on her sis, she had zero clue that she herself was slowly becoming the trending topic in his bestie’s feed. mr. darcy at first barely gave her any props: he peeped her at the ball with zero admiration; and the next time they crossed paths, he only looked to drop critiques. but no cap, once he made it clear to himself and his crew that her face wasn’t serving any major fire, he peeped how her dark eyes, shining with a dope expression, made her look uncommonly smart. soon after, more cringe revelations followed. even tho his savage critic-eye clocked mad flaws in the symmetry of her whole vibe, he had to admit her figure was light and pleasing; and despite him dissing her manners as not on trend with the posh scene, he got caught up in their chill, playful energy. of course, she was completely oblivious: to her, he was just that dude who never managed to be on point anywhere, and who never thought she was hype enough to hit the dance floor.

dude started lowkey wanting to know more about her; and as a way to slide into her convos on his own, he began eavesdropping on her chats with the squad. obviously, she peeped his move. this all went down at sir william lucas’s crib, where a massive party had rolled up.

“what’s mr. darcy on about,” she asked charlotte, “when he’s been lurking on my convo with colonel forster?”

“that’s a question only mr. darcy can answer.”

“but if he keeps it up, imma definitely clap back and let him know i see through his game. he’s got a hella satirical eye, and if i don’t start dishing out some shade myself, i’m gonna get shook by his roast game.{31}”

“the entreaties of several” [copyright 1894 by george allen.]

soon after, as he rolled up to them—acting like he wasn’t planning to drop a word—miss lucas dared her friend to bring up that topic with him. totally goaded by that, elizabeth spun around and said,—

“yo, mr. darcy, didn’t you peep how fire my roast was just now when i was straight-up goading colonel forster to hook us up with a meryton ball?”

“with mad energy; but it’s a topic that always gets a lady lit, no cap.{32}”

“omg, you’re extra on us.”

“she’ll be up for roast next in no time,” said miss lucas. “i’m about to drop the beat on this instrument, eliza, and you know the drill.”

“like, you are such a weird friend sometimes! always pushing me to spit and drop tracks in front of literally everyone! if my vanity was all about that musical vibe, you’d be the mvp; but as it stands, i’d seriously rather not have to perform for peeps who are only used to hearing 5-star acts.” on miss lucas’s constant hustle, she added, “aight then; if it’s gotta be that way, so be it.” and glancing seriously at mr. darcy, she continued, “there’s this OG saying everyone here totally vibes with—‘keep your breath to cool your porridge’—and i’mma keep mine in chill mode to boost my jam.”

her performance was on fleek, but not exactly legendary. after dropping a tune or two, and before she could even answer the squad’s pleas for an encore, her sis mary jumped in on the instrument. mary, being the only not-so-gorgeous one in the fam, had to hustle hard for her knowledge and skills, and she was always hyped for the spotlight.

mary wasn’t blessed with that genius spark or aesthetic vibe; and even tho her vanity pushed her to practice, it also gave her this annoying pedantic and conceited aura that would’ve wrecked even a higher level of excellence than she ever reached. meanwhile, elizabeth—chill and effortlessly cool—was listened to with way more pleasure, even if she wasn’t playing half as fire; and mary, after banging out a long set, was stoked to score clout and mad props with scotch and irish remix jams, as requested by her younger sisters, who, along with some of the lucases and a couple of officers, busted out dancing at one end of the room.{33}

mr. darcy was chilling near them, lowkey fuming at how the evening was being wasted with zero convo, and was so deep in his own feels that he didn’t even clock that sir william lucas was his neighbor—until sir william started off:—

“yo, mr. darcy, what a lit vibe for the youth this is! honestly, nothing beats dancing. i gotta say, it’s like one of the original flexes of a classy crew.”

“fo sho, sir; and it’s also trending among the real ones: every savage can bust a move.”

sir william just cracked a smile. “your friend is straight-up on fire,” he continued after a beat, when i peeped bingley rolling into the group; “and i’m sure you’re killin’ it in that department too, mr. darcy.”

“you definitely saw me bust a move at meryton, i believe, sir.”

“yup, for real, and i got mad enjoyment from watchin’ that. do you even hit the dance floor at st. james’s?”

“never, sir.”

“don’t you think it’d be a sick compliment to the place?”

“that’s a compliment i never throw around if i can dodge it.”

“so you got a crib in town, i take it?”

mr. darcy bowed.

“i once thought about settin’ up shop in town myself, since i’m all about that elite scene; but i wasn’t 100% sure that london’s vibe would mesh with lady lucas.”

he paused, hoping for a reply; but his buddy wasn’t about to drop one; and at that moment, elizabeth strutted over, and he got hit with this extra gentleman vibe, then shouted to her,—

“my dear miss eliza, why you not vibin’ on the dance floor? mr. darcy, let me put you onto this fly young lady as a hella desirable dance partner. i’m sure you can’t say no to a dance when so much beauty is right in front of you.”

and, grabbing her hand, he was ready to pass it over to mr. darcy, who—lowkey shocked—was not against it, when she straight-up retracted and, with some awkward discomposure, said to sir william,—

“indeed, sir, i ain’t even tryna dance. please don’t get it twisted that i rolled over here just to beg for a partner.”

mr. darcy, all proper and grave, asked if he might earn the honor of her hand, but it was a total nope. elizabeth was set in her ways; and not even sir william’s extra hustle could shake her vibe.

“miss eliza, you slay so hard on the dance floor that it’s straight-up cruel to block me from catching that joy; and even though this dude isn’t normally about that dance life, i’m sure he won’t be mad to hook us up for just a half hour.”

“mr. darcy is all politeness,” said elizabeth with a cheeky smile.

“he def is; but considering the perks, my dear miss eliza, it’s no shock he’s being so chill—cause honestly, who would ever say no to a partner like that?”

elizabeth gave a sly side-eye and spun away. her resistance hadn’t killed her vibe with the gentleman, and he was still thinking of her all cool and content, when miss bingley slid up and said,—

“i can totally guess what’s on your mind.”

“lol, i doubt it.”

“you’re probably thinking about how un-bearable it’d be to spend loads of evenings like this—in such basic society; and fr, i’m totally with you. i’ve never been so heated! the blandness, and yet the noise—the sheer nothingness, but still dripping with self-importance, of all these folks! what i wouldn’t give to hear your hot takes on them!”

“your guess is totally off, i promise. my mind was vibing on something way more lit. i’ve been deep in thought about the epic joy a pair of fine eyes on a gorgeous woman can drop on someone.”

miss bingley instantly locked eyes on his face, and demanded he spill which lady had got him out here dropping these deep lines. mr. darcy shot back, all bold,—

“miss elizabeth bennet.”

“miss elizabeth bennet!” echoed miss bingley. “i’m shook! how long has she been your fave? and like, when do i get to wish you joy?”

“that’s literally the question i was waiting for. a lady’s imagination is on turbo; it leaps from admiration to love, and straight to marriage in a snap. i totally knew you’d be sending me joy.”

“nah, if you’re that deadass about it, consider it sealed. you’re gonna land a charming mother-in-law, for real, and of course she’ll always be chillin’ at pemberley with you.”

he tuned into her chatter with straight-up indifference, while she kept spittin’ her vibes; and once his chill assured her that everything was on the level, her wit just kept flowing.{36}

a note for miss bennet.

chapter vii.

r. bennet’s cash flow was basically an estate pullin’ in like 2,000 a year, which, lowkey, was totally locked down for his daughters ‘cause it was entailed on some distant fam member if no male heirs came through; and their mom’s fortune, tho it was solid for her lane, couldn’t really cover his shortfall. her daddy used to be an attorney in meryton, and he left her 4,000 pounds.

she had a sis hitched to a mr. phillips, who used to be a clerk for her dad and then took over the biz, and a bro who set up shop in london doing a legit trade.

the village of longbourn was just like one mile from meryton; super convenient for the young ladies, who’d normally dip there three or four times a week to do their auntie duties and hit up a milliner’s shop just around the corner. the two youngest in the fam, catherine and lydia, were extra on these trips: their heads were way more vacant than their sisters’, and if nothing else was poppin’, a stroll to meryton was essential to spice up their mornings and load up on tea for the evenings; and even if the countryside was mad dull news-wise, they always managed to scoop some fresh deets from their aunt.

right now, for real, they were loaded with both tea and good vibes thanks to a fresh militia regiment that just dropped into the ‘hood; they were gonna crash there all winter, and meryton was basically the headquarters.

their check-ins at mrs. phillips’s were now spittin’ out the most interesting deets. every day, they got extra scoop on the officers’ names and hookups. their crib wasn’t a secret for long, and eventually they started vibin’ directly with the officers themselves. mr. phillips would roll through, and that unlocked a whole new level of happiness for his nieces. they were all about the officers; and mr. bingley’s huge fortune—which got their mom all hyped—was basically nothing next to the swag of an ensign’s regimental drip.{38}

after catching their morning tea on the subject, mr. bennet deadpanned,—

“from all the tea i can scoop from how you two chat, y’all must be the silliest girls in the country. i’d been suspectin’ it for a minute, but now i’m 100% convinced.”

catherine got shook and kept silent; but lydia, totally unfazed, continued raving about captain carter and hyping up the chance to see him later in the day, since he was bound for london the next morning.

“i’m absolutely shook, my dears,” said mrs. bennet, “that you’d be so quick to call your own kids silly. if i wanted to trash anyone’s kids, i’d never do it with mine.”

“if my kids are silly, i better be on top of that, always.”

“yeah; but honestly, they’re all hella clever.”

“this is the only tea, i like to think, where we don’t match up. i hoped we were on the same wavelength in every deet, but i gotta disagree—i think our two youngest are next-level foolish.”

“my dear mr. bennet, you can’t expect these girls to have the smarts of their parents. when they hit our age, i bet they won’t be fixated on officers any more than we are. i remember back when i was lowkey into a red coat myself—and honestly, i still vibe with that deep down; and if a sharp young colonel pullin’ like 5 or 6,000 a year wants one of my girls, i won’t say no; plus, i thought colonel forster was looking mad fresh at sir william’s the other night in his regimental drip.{39}”

“mamma,” shrieked lydia, “my aunt just clued me in that colonel forster and captain carter aren’t hittin’ miss watson’s as much as they did back when they first rolled up; she now sees them posted on the regular in clarke’s library.”

mrs. bennet got cut off mid-reply when a footman breezed in with a note for miss bennet; it was straight from netherfield, and the servant waited on deck for a reply. mrs. bennet’s eyes were all lit up, and she started hollering while her daughter read,—

“yo, jane, who’s dis from? what’s the tea? what does it say? come on, jane, spill it; hurry up, my love.”

“it’s from miss bingley,” said jane, then read it aloud:

“my dear friend,

if you ain’t down to grub today with louisa and me, we’re gonna be lowkey hatin’ each other for life; ‘cause a whole day of one-on-one gossip between two girls never ends without some serious beef. slide through as soon as you can once this hits. my bro and the dudes are dining with the officers. yours always,

caroline bingley.”

“with the officers!” shrieked lydia: “i legit wonder why my aunt didn’t spill that tea sooner.”

“dining out,” said mrs. bennet; “that’s super jinxed.”

“can i snag the carriage?” said jane.

“nah, my dear, you gotta ride on horseback, cuz it looks like it’s gonna pour; and then you’ll have to crash there all night.”

“that’d be a sick plan,” said elizabeth, “if you were 100% sure they wouldn’t yeet her back home.{40}”

“nah, but the dudes will be rockin’ mr. bingley’s whip to bounce to meryton; and the hursts don’t even have horses on deck.”

“i’d rather roll in the coach.”

“but, my dear, your father can’t spare the horses, i’m sure. they’re needed on the farm, mr. bennet, right?”

cheerful prognostics

“they’re needed on the farm way more than i can even snag them.”

“but if you did snag them today,” said elizabeth, “mom’s plan is gonna be on track.{41}”

she finally squeezed an acknowledgment out of her dad that the horses were booked; so jane had no choice but to ride on horseback, and her mom escorted her to the door with a bunch of upbeat vibes predicting a messy day ahead. her hopes were confirmed; jane didn’t bounce for long before it started pouring hard. her sisters were lowkey stressing, but her mom was straight-up hyped. the rain kept drenching all evening, non-stop; jane straight-up couldn’t make it back.

“this was, like, a dope idea of mine, for real!” said mrs. bennet more than once, acting like the credit for the deluge was all hers. but it wasn’t till the next morning that she even peeped how epic her plan had been. barely over breakfast when a netherfield servant rolled in with a note for elizabeth:—

“my dearest lizzie,

i’m feeling super crummy this morning, which i guess is cuz i got hella soaked yesterday. my awesome friends aren’t havin’ it with me headin’ back home till i’m back on point. they’re dead set on me meeting up with mr. jones—so don’t freak if you hear he swung by—and aside from a sore throat and a headache, i’m pretty much chill.

yours, etc.”

“well, my dear,” said mr. bennet, after elizabeth read the note out loud, “if your daughter were to catch some wild illness—if she even were to kick the bucket—it’d be a weird comfort knowin’ it was all for mr. bingley, and on your orders.”

“oh, i’m not even sweating the idea of her dying. people don’t just dip out from a little cold, fr. she’ll be taken care of, no doubt. as long as she chills there, it’s all good. i’d totally roll over to see her if i could snag the carriage.”

elizabeth, feeling mad anxious, decided to head over to her even though the carriage was a no-go; and since she isn’t any sort of horse whiz, walking was her only flex. she slammed down her decision.

“how can you be so extra,” cried her mom, “to even think of doing that in all this grime! you won’t even be fit to be seen when you get there.”

“i’ll be totally ready to see jane—and that’s all that matters.”

“is this a hint for me, lizzy,” said her dad, “to go call for the horses?”

“nah, for real. i’m not tryna dodge the walk. three miles is nothing when you’ve got a solid motive; i’ll be back by dinner.”

“i gotta give props for your hustle,” observed mary, “but every vibe should be backed by logic; and honestly, i think you should only flex as much as needed.”

“we’ll roll with you all the way to meryton,” said catherine and lydia. elizabeth was down for it, and the three young ladies bounced off together.

“if we hustle,” said lydia as they marched, “maybe we’ll peep a glimpse of captain carter before he bounces.”

in meryton, they split: the two youngest headed off to crash at one of the officers’ wives’ spots, and elizabeth kept on her solo walk, sprinting through field after field at a mad pace, vaulting over stiles and splashin’ through puddles, all hyped up and finally spotting the house—with tired ankles, messy stockings, and a face all aglow from the warmth of the grind.{43}

she got escorted into the breakfast parlour, where literally everyone except jane was vibing, and her entrance was a total plot twist. that she managed a three-mile trek at the crack of dawn in such filthy, messy weather—doing it solo—was straight-up unbelievable to mrs. hurst and miss bingley; and elizabeth was convinced they were throwing major side-eye at her for it. nonetheless, they greeted her all polite-like; and in their bro’s vibe there was more than mere politeness—there was mad good-humour and real kindness. mr. darcy barely dropped a word, and mr. hurst was on mute, busy only thinking about his brekkie. the guy was split between admiring the lit glow her workout gave her and wondering if her solo trek was even a justified flex.

her tea about her sis wasn’t exactly the vibes. miss bennet was feeling super off—she’d slept terrible, and even though she was up, she was hit with a savage fever and wasn’t fit to leave her room. elizabeth was totally hyped to be whisked over to her immediately; and jane—who’d been holding back on confessing in a note just how madly she craved a visit (so as not to cause a panic)—was over the moon at elizabeth’s arrival. jane, though, wasn’t down for a deep convo; and once miss bingley dipped, jane could only drop a few thanks for the extra kindness. elizabeth just silently chilled by her side.

“the apothecary came”

after brekkie, the sister squad bounced in, and elizabeth started feeling the love seeing how much extra care they were dishing out for jane. then the apothecary rolled up; after checking out his patient, he was like, “obviously you’ve caught a savage cold, and we gotta endeavour to{44} get the better of it”—dropping the advice to bounce back to bed and promising some chill draughts. jane was all in for that real quick, as her fever was cranking up and her head was seriously banging. elizabeth legit didn’t leave her room for a sec, and the other ladies were pretty much stuck there too; with the dudes out, there was nada else to do.

when the clock hit three, elizabeth felt it was time to dip, though she was mad reluctant about it. miss bingley slid in with a carriage offer, and with just a little nudge she almost caved—until jane got extra about not wanting to split, forcing miss bingley to flip the offer into an invite to chill at netherfield for now. elizabeth, mad grateful, agreed, and a servant was sent off to longbourn to fill the fam in on her stay and snag some fresh fits.

{45}

at t five o’clock, the two ladies bounced off to get dressed, and by half-past six elizabeth got the ping to hit dinner. amid a flood of chill, proper inquiries—among which she totally peeped mr. bingley’s extra care—she couldn’t give a super favourable answer.{46} jane wasn’t doing much better. the sisters kept on rehashing, like three or four times, how gutted they were, how totally savage it was having a bad cold, and how much they straight-up hated being sick; then they ghosted on the subject altogether. their indifference when jane wasn’t right in front of them let elizabeth get back to her original level of low-key dislike.

her bro was the only one in the squad she could actually vibe with. his genuine worry for jane was obvious, and his attention to her was mad pleasing; it totally stopped her from feeling like a total unwanted guest, as she lowkey believed the others did. she got barely any props from anyone else except him. miss bingley was lowkey obsessed with mr. darcy, her own sis wasn’t far behind; and as for mr. hurst—the dude elizabeth sat next to—he was basically a lazy simp who existed just to chow down, drink, and throw down at cards, and the minute he found out she was down for a basic plate instead of a fancy ragout, he had nothing to say.

when dinner wrapped up, she bounced straight back to jane, and as soon as miss bingley peeped her out the room, she started throwing shade like nobody’s business. her manners were slammed as super trash—a wild mix of pride and straight-up impertinence: zero convo game, no style, no taste, no beauty. mrs. hurst was vibing the same way and added, 

  “she’s got nothing to flex about except that she can walk like a boss. i’ll never forget her look this morning—she was straight-up wild.”

  “she was def wild, louisa. i nearly lost it watching her. seriously, it’s so extra to roll in like that! why must she be scampering all over the countryside just ‘cause her sis caught a cold? her hair was such a hot mess, so untidy, so blowzy!{47}”

  “yeah, and her petticoat too; i swear, you saw it—like, six inches sunk in mud, i’m absolutely certain—and her gown, which was supposed to cover it up, totally failed its mission.”

  “your description might be on point, louisa,” said bingley, “but honestly, i missed all that. i thought miss elizabeth bennet looked fire when she walked in this morning. i didn’t even clock the dirty petticoat.”

  “you noticed it, mr. darcy, i’m sure,” said miss bingley, “and i’m lowkey thinking you wouldn’t wanna see your sister pull that stunt.”
 
  “certainly not.”

  “to trek three, or four, or five miles—or whatever it is—getting all muddy above her ankles, and flying solo, like, completely on her own! what was she even thinking? it just screams a messed-up kind of conceited independence, a total country-town disregard for decorum.”

  “nah, it’s just her showing mad love for her sis,” said bingley.

  “i’m worried, mr. darcy,” whispered miss bingley, all half-quiet, “that this whole adventure kinda dimmed your hype for her fine eyes.”

  “not at all,” he shot back, “they were brightened by the exercise.” a brief pause followed, and mrs. hurst jumped in again, 

  “i got mad respect for jane bennet—she’s seriously a sweetheart—and i wish with all my heart she had a solid life. but with a dad and mom like hers, and such basic connections, i’m afraid there’s zero chance for it.”

  “i think i heard you say that their uncle is an attorney in meryton?{48}”

  “yeah; and they’ve got another, who lives somewhere near cheapside.”

  “that is capital,” added her sis, and they both cracked up.

  “if they had enough uncles to pack all of cheapside,” cried bingley, “it still wouldn’t make them any less extra.”

  “but it’s gonna totally drop their odds of marrying any high-key respectable dudes in the world,” replied darcy.

bingley clammed up after that, but his sisters were laughing their heads off, roasting their dear friend’s basic fam for a minute. still, with renewed tenderness, they cruised back to jane’s room after bouncing from the dining-parlour, and chilled with her until they got summoned for coffee. jane was still mad sick, and elizabeth wouldn’t ditch her at all until late in the evening—only finally finding peace when she saw jane passed out—when it felt more right than fun for her to bounce downstairs solo. stepping into the drawing-room, she found the whole gang at the loo and got hyped to join them; but suspecting they were playing high stakes, she dipped and told her sis she’d vibe with a book for the short time she’d be downstairs. mr. hurst just stared at her, all astonished.

“do you prefer reading to cards?” mr. hurst asked like, “that’s kinda weird.”

“miss eliza bennet,” said miss bingley, “is over cards. she’s a major reader and gets no buzz from anything else.”

“i deserve neither such props nor that shade,” cried elizabeth{49}; “i’m not some epic reader, and i vibe with a load of other stuff.”

“i bet nursing your sis gives you all the feels,” said bingley, “and i hope that soon is boosted by her bouncing back.”

elizabeth sent out a heartfelt thanks and then slid over to a table where a few books were chillin. he immediately offered to snag her more—from his entire library.

“and i wish my collection was bigger for your benefit and my own cred; but i’m just an idle dude—and even though i don’t have a ton, i got more than i ever even peeped.”

elizabeth assured him she was totally cool with just those in the room.

“i’m shook,” said miss bingley, “that my dad left such a tiny stack of books. what a delightful library you got at pemberley, mr. darcy!”
 
“it ought to be pretty dope,” he replied, “it’s been built up over mad generations.”

“and then you keep droppin on more yourself—you’re always copping books.”

“i just can’t comprehend a family library being neglected these days.”

“neglect! i know you never slack on anything that adds to the vibe of that noble place. charles, when you build your crib, i hope it’s at least half as fire as pemberley.”{50}

“i wish it may.”

“but seriously, i’d advise you to scoop up property in that neighbourhood and use pemberley as your model. there’s no county in england finer than derbyshire.”{51}

“with all my heart: i’d even buy pemberley itself if darcy were ready to sell.”

“i’m just talking possibilities, charles.”

“on my word, caroline, i’d say it’s way more likely to score pemberley by purchase than by imitation.”

elizabeth got so caught up in all the banter that she barely even noticed her book; soon she totally ditched it, rolling over to the card-table and parking herself between mr. bingley and his oldest sis to scope out the game.

“has miss darcy grown much since spring?” asked miss bingley, “will she hit my height?”

“i think so. she’s about miss elizabeth bennet’s height now, or even a bit taller.”

“how i miss her! i’ve never met anyone who lit me up like she does. her face, her vibe, and she’s mad accomplished for her age! plus, her performance on the pianoforte is straight-up exquisite.”

“it blows my mind,” said bingley, “how these young ladies can be patient enough to be so mega accomplished.”

“all young ladies are accomplished! my dear charles, what are you even on about?”

“yeah, i mean, pretty much all of ‘em. they all can paint tables, cover screens, and net purses. i barely know a single girl who can’t do at least one of these; and i’m pretty sure i’ve never heard of a young lady without someone hyping her up as very accomplished.”

“your rundown of common skills is, like, totally on point,” said darcy, “but the word gets slapped on so many women who only deserve it for netting a purse or covering a screen; yet i’m seriously not vibing with your general rating of ladies. i can’t even brag that i know more than half-a-dozen people in my whole squad who are genuinely next-level accomplished.”{52}

“nor i, for real,” said miss bingley.

“then,” observed elizabeth, “you must have some deep take on what makes a woman truly accomplished.”

“yeah; i do get a lot about it.”

“oh, for sure,” piped up his ride-or-die sidekick, “no one’s really deemed accomplished unless they totally outclass what’s normally seen. a woman’s gotta be on point with music, singing, drawing, dancing, and even modern languages to earn that title; and besides that, she’s gotta have that extra je ne sais quoi in her walk, the tone of her voice, her whole vibe and expressions, or else it’s only half the story.”

“all that she must have,” added darcy, “and on top of it, she’s gotta stack some serious brain gains from hardcore reading.”

“i’m not even surprised you only know like six accomplished women. i’m honestly shook if you know any at all.”

“are you really that harsh on your own squad to doubt the possibility of all this?”

“i’ve never seen a woman with that insane combo of talent, taste, hustle, and elegance united.”

mrs. hurst and miss bingley both exploded, calling out the injustice of her low-key doubt, both insisting they knew a ton of women who fit that bill, just as mr. hurst snapped them to order with a tirade of bitter complaints about their total inattention to the real tea. with the convo dead in the water, elizabeth dipped out of the room shortly after.

“eliza bennet,” said miss bingley after the door closed on her, “is one of those young ladies who try to flex to the other sex by lowballing their own worth; and with a bunch of dudes, i bet it even works—but honestly, it’s a super lame move, a totally mean art.”

“undoubtedly,” replied darcy—his main target for that diss—“there’s cringey meanness in all the arts ladies sometimes stoop to for captivation. anything tied to sly scheming is straight-up despicable.”

miss bingley wasn’t having it and let the subject drop.

elizabeth rejoined them just to announce that her sis was even worse, and she couldn’t ditch her. bingley pushed for mr. jones to be sent for immediately; while his sisters, convinced that any rural advice wouldn’t help, hollered for an express run to town for one of the top docs. jane wasn’t feeling that at all; but she wasn’t too opposed to following their bro’s plan either, and they settled that mr. jones would be hit up first thing in the morning if miss bennet wasn’t clearly better. bingley was super uncomfortable; his sisters groaned that they were miserable. they tried to ease their woes with duets after dinner, while he found his only relief in bossing his housekeeper to give every possible care to the sick lady and her sis.{53}

mrs. bennet and her two youngest girls.
chapter ix.

elizabeth spent most of the night chillin’ in her sis’s room, and in the morning she got the chance to drop a half-decent reply to the early inquiries from mr. bingley—delivered via a housemaid—and later from the two elegant ladies serving his sisters. even after that little upgrade,{54} she still hit up a note to longbourn, urging her mom to come check on jane and judge the sitch for herself. the note was sent out on the double, and the fam got on it pronto. mrs. bennet, rolling with her two youngest girls, rocked up at netherfield right after the family brekkie.

if mrs. bennet had found jane in any major danger, she would have totally lost it; but after seeing that jane’s illness wasn’t alarmingly bad, she wasn’t eager for her to recover too fast—since that would probably mean jane would bounce from netherfield. so she straight-up ignored her daughter’s pitch about carrying jane home; neither did the apothecary, who arrived around the same time, think that was the move. after chilling with jane for a bit, when miss bingley showed up with an invite, mrs. bennet and her three daughters all trailed jane back into the breakfast parlour. bingley met them with the hope that mrs. bennet hadn’t found miss bennet even more extra than expected.

“indeed i have, sir,” mrs. bennet replied, all business. “she’s way too ill to be moved. mr. jones says moving her is totally off the table. so, we gotta lean on your kindness a little longer.”

“removed!” bingley burst out. “there’s zero way of even thinking about that. my sis, i’m sure, would never vibe with her being moved.”

“you can count on it, madam,” said miss bingley with frosty civility, “that miss bennet is gonna get every bit of care while she’s with us.”

mrs. bennet went on, all profuse with gratitude.

“i swear, if it weren’t for such amazing friends, i dunno what’d become of her—she’s super ill, and suffering hard, though with the greatest patience in the world, which is always her style,{55} since she’s got, without fail, the sweetest temper i’ve ever met. i often tell my other girls they’re nothing compared to her. mr. bingley, you’ve got a lovely room here, and that gravel walkway gives a charming view. i’ve never seen any place in the country that measures up to netherfield. i really hope you’re not planning on bouncing from it in a hurry, even though your lease is short.”

“everything i do is always in a rush,” he replied, “so if i decided to peace out of netherfield, i’d probably be gone in five minutes. but right now, i’m totally fixed here.”

“exactly what i’d expect from you,” said elizabeth.

“so you’re finally getting me, huh?” he called out, glancing her way.

“oh yes—I totally get you.”

“i wish i could take that as a compliment; but being so easily read is kinda sad.”

“well, that just goes to show that having a deep, intricate character isn’t necessarily more impressive than someone as straightforward as you.”

“lizzy,” cried her mom, “remember where you are and don’t go wild like you do at home.”

“i didn’t know before,” bingley continued immediately, “that you were such a character analyst—it must be a fun study.”

“yeah; but intricate peeps are the most entertaining. they at least have that edge.”

“the country,” said darcy, “can generally only offer a few subjects for such a study. in a country neighbourhood, you’re stuck in a very confined, unvarying scene.”{56}

“but people change so much, there’s always something new to peep,” countered another.

“yes, indeed,” cried mrs. bennet, a bit miffed at that country diss, “i promise you there’s just as much happening in the country as in town.”

everyone was totally surprised; and darcy, after giving her a long look, just turned away in silence. mrs. bennet, feeling like she’d totally scored a win over him, kept the triumph coming:

“i don’t see that london has any real edge over the country, aside from the shops and hangouts. for me, the country is way more pleasant, isn’t it, mr. bingley?”

“when i’m in the country,” he replied, “i never wanna leave; and when i’m in town, it’s pretty much the same vibe. each has its perks, and i can be just as happy in either.”

“yeah, that’s 'cause you’re on the right wavelength. but that gentleman,” she said, shooting a look at darcy, “seemed to think the country was totally nothing.”

“indeed, mamma, you’re mistaken,” said elizabeth, blushing hard for her mom. “you totally misread mr. darcy. he only meant there isn’t as much variety in country peeps as in town, which is totally true.”

“certainly, dear—nobody said there were loads; but as for not meeting many people in this neighbourhood, i believe few neighbourhoods are larger. i know we dine with twenty-four families.”{57}

bingley struggled to keep his cool out of pure concern for elizabeth. his sister, less delicate, shot a super expressive smile in mr. darcy’s direction. elizabeth, looking to switch up the mood and steer her mom’s thoughts elsewhere, asked if charlotte lucas had hit up longbourn since she split.

“yes, she called yesterday with her dad. what an agreeable man—sir william is such a vibe, mr. bingley, isn’t he? the ultimate man of fashion—so genteel and chill! he always’s got something to say to everyone. that’s what i call good breeding; those who think they’re mega important and never open their mouth totally miss the point.”

“did charlotte dine with you?”

“nah, she bounced home. i heard she was needed for the mince-pies. as for me, mr. bingley, i only roll with servants who can handle their own biz; i raised my daughters differently. but honestly, everyone’s gotta judge for themselves, and the lucases are honestly a really good crew, i promise you. it’s a pity they aren’t more handsome! not that i think charlotte’s super plain; but she’s just our special friend.”

“she seems like a really pleasant young woman,” said bingley.

“oh fr, yes; but yo, gotta admit, she’s defo basic. even lady lucas herself has straight-up said it a bunch, and was lowkey jelly of my jane’s fire looks. not tryna flex my own kid’s drip, but real talk: jane is next level fine—nobody’s ever seen someone with that kinda glow-up. that’s the tea everyone’s spilling. i ain’t tryna sugarcoat with my own bias. back when she was just fifteen, there was this dude at my bro gardiner’s in town who was so head over heels for her that my sis-in-law was shook, convinced he’d slide an offer her way before we even bounced. but, lowkey, he totally ghosted that move. maybe he thought she was too young? still, he dropped some poetic bars about her, and, not gonna lie, they were pretty lit.{58}

“and so ended his affection,” said elizabeth, impatiently. “there’s totes been plenty of peeps burnt the same way. i wonder who was the original genius to discover that dropping poetry is like, the ultimate love repellent!”

“i’ve always seen poetry as love’s munchies,” said darcy.

“yup, for that solid, heavy-hype love it might be. everything fuels what’s already flexing hard. but if it’s just a weak, flimsy vibe, no cap, one savage sonnet will leave it hangry and ghost it completely.”

darcy just dropped a lowkey smirk; and the awkward silence that followed made elizabeth shiver, worried her mom might start oversharing again. she was dying to say something but her brain was totally buffering. after a brief mute moment, mrs. bennet went off again with her endless thanks to mr. bingley for being super kind to jane, plus an extra apology for also bugging him with lizzy. mr. bingley stayed chill as ever in his reply and even made his little sis play along and drop the formalities the moment demanded. she did her part—though not exactly with all the gracious vibes—but mrs. bennet was hyped, and soon after she ordered her carriage. on that cue, the youngest daughter stepped up. the two girls had been lowkey whispering the whole visit, and the endgame was that the youngest called out mr. bingley for promising, on his first roll into town, to throw a ball at netherfield.

lydia was a solid, well-glowed fifteen-year-old, rocking a banging complexion and a chill, good-humoured face; totally momma’s fav, since mrs. bennet had been hyping her from day one. she had major beast mode energy and a natural confidence that got boosted by all the attention from officers—thanks to her uncle’s bomb dinners and her super smooth manners. so she was totally down to call mr. bingley out on the ball sitch, abruptly reminding him of his promise and adding that it’d be the most cringe move ever if he bailed. his comeback to that sudden clapback was absolute music to her mom’s ears.

“yo, i’m totally down to honor my word, i promise. and when your sis is back on fleek, you can pick the day for the ball—though fr, you wouldn’t wanna be busting moves while she’s down with the ill, right?”

lydia was all in on that. “oh yes—it’d be way better to chill until jane’s well; and by then, probs, captain carter will be back in meryton. and when you throw your ball,” she added, “i’m making them throw one too. imma even tell colonel forster that it’d be a total shame if he skipped out.”

mrs. bennet and her squad dipped soon after, and elizabeth bounced back to jane in a sec, letting the two ladies and mr. darcy do their thing about her behavior. mr. darcy, though, wasn’t having any of their roast session on her—despite miss bingley going off with zingers about her fine eyes.{60}

chapter x.

the day went down basically like yesterday. mrs. hurst and miss bingley spent some morning chillin’ with the sickly guest, who, though slow af, was steadily on the mend; and by evenin’, elizabeth rolled into the drawing-room with their crew. the loo table, though, was a no-show. mr. darcy was busy penning his epic letter, while miss bingley, parked right next to him, kept peeping at his flow and kept distracting him with texts to his sis. mr. hurst and mr. bingley were out there flexin’ at a piquet game, with mrs. hurst lowkey observing their moves.

elizabeth grabbed some needlework and was lowkey entertained by the backstage banter between darcy and his sidekick. the lady kept on dropping endless props about his calligraphy skills, the smooth drip of his lines, and the marathon length of his letter—and he accepted her mad compliments with the chillest of vibes. that whole exchange was a wild dialogue, syncing perfectly with her own low-key opinions on each move.{61}

“how delighted miss darcy’s gonna be to get such a letter!”  

mr. darcy didn’t even answer.

“dude, you be scribbling at warp speed.”

“nah, you’re trippin’. i write hella slow.”

“dude, you prolly drop mad letters all year—business ones too! those must be, like, super annoying.”

“lucky for you, they landed on my plate instead of yours.”

“hmu your sis and tell her i’m dying to see her.”

“i already slid that message once, just like you asked.”

“not gonna lie, i think you’re not vibing with your pen. lemme fix it—I got mad pen-mending skills.”

“thanks, but i always handle my own gear.”

“how do you even keep your writing on fleek all the time?”

mr. darcy stayed silent.

“tell your sis i’m hella hyped about her harp glow-up, and let her know i’m straight shook over her adorable table design—which, fr, is way superior to miss grantley’s.”

“can i postpone your gush until i can drop another letter? right now, my page just can’t do it justice.”

“nah, it's chill. i’ll catch her in january. but mr. darcy, do you always pen these epic long letters to her?”

“they’re typically extra-long; but whether they’re always charming is not really my call.”

“i got this rule: if you can whip up a long letter without breaking a sweat, you can’t possibly be trash with your words.”

“that ain’t a compliment for darcy, caroline,” snapped her brother, “because he doesn’t just write chill—he’s on serious hustle mode for big words. right, darcy?”

“my style is hella diff from yours.”

“oh snap,” cried miss bingley, “charles writes like he’s on a caffeine meltdown—dude drops half his words and smudges the rest.”

“my brain’s on turbo, so i barely have time to spill my ideas; which means sometimes my letters barely send any vibes at all.”

“mr. bingley, your fake humble act totally shuts down any clapbacks,” said elizabeth.

“nothing’s more shady than the look of humility,” said darcy. “it’s usually just careless opinions, or even an indirect flex.”

“so which one do you call my little humble drop—the careless vibe or the indirect boast?”

“definitely the indirect boast; u’re lowkey proud of your writing quirks, thinking they’re just the result of a lightning-fast brain and chill, unfiltered style—which, even if not perfect, is mad fascinating. pulling off anything quick is always a major flex, even if you ignore the little flaws. when you told mrs. bennet this morning that if you ever bounced from netherfield you'd dip in five minutes flat, you were lowkey hyping yourself; but seriously, what’s so commendable about hurrying that means you leave actual business hanging, benefiting no one, including you?”

“nah fam,” cried bingley, “this is wild—to remember all that morning’s cray talk at night is too much. but honestly, on my honor, i truly believed what i said about my lightning exit, and i still vibe with it. at least, i wasn’t just rushing to flex in front of the ladies.”

“i bet you believed it, but i’m not buying that you’d bounce so fast. your moves are as unpredictable as any random dude i know; like, if you were saddling up and a buddy said, ‘bingley, chill till next week,’ you’d probably just stay put—and maybe even hang around for a month.”

“u just proved that mr. bingley’s vibe is even more extra than he ever shot for—u hyped him way more than he ever did himself.”

“i’m mad stoked that u flipped my buddy’s roast into props for my chill temper. but, fr, i think u twisted it in a way that guy never meant; he’d def think better of me if, in that sitch, i just straight-up denied it and yeeted out at max speed.”

“so, mr. darcy, would u say that my rush to dip is made up for by sticking to it stubbornly?”

“omg fam, i can’t even explain it—darcy gotta drop his own 4-1-1 on that.”

“u want me to account for opinions that u call mine, which i never even admitted to? so, if we roll with your story, remember, miss bennet, that the friend who’s all about wanting him back and delaying his bounce, just wished for it—asked for it—without even serving a legit reason why it should be.</p>

“caving in super quick to a friend’s vibes ain’t exactly a win for you.”

“giving in without even being sure is a major fail for both of y’all.”

“mr. darcy, it seems like you ain’t letting friendship vibes do their thing. like, when someone tight with you asks for a favor, sometimes you just roll with it without overthinking. i’m not even talking about the mr. bingley case specifically. maybe we should wait for the tea to drop before debating his chill mode. but generally, between besties, when one friend wants the other to change a decision that’s no biggie, would u really bash them for just going with it without a big debate?”

“yo, before we dive into this convo, shouldn’t we nail down exactly how major this request is and how tight the bond really is?”

“sure thing,” cried bingley; “spill all the deets, including who’s bigger in reputation—‘cause that totally weighs in the argument, miss bennet, more than u might think. trust me, if darcy wasn’t, like, mega tall compared to me, i’d show him way less respect. honestly, i’ve never peeped a more cringeworthy dude than darcy on certain occasions and in certain places—especially at his own crib or on a lazy sunday night when he’s bored outta his mind.”

mr. darcy smiled; but elizabeth peeped that he was kind of shook, so she held back her laugh. miss bingley, lowkey heated from his off-key reaction, snapped at her brother for spitting such nonsense.

“i see through your plan, bingley,” said his friend. “u ain’t down for a full-on beef and just wanna shut it all down.”

“maybe i do. arguments feel way too much like petty beefs. if you and miss bennet could just hold your chats until i yeet out of the room, i’d be super thankful; then u can diss me all u want.”

“what u ask is totally cool from my end; and mr. darcy, you should def finish that letter.”

mr. darcy took her advice and wrapped his letter up.

once that tea was spilled, he hit up miss bingley and elizabeth asking for some jams. miss bingley bounced over to the pianoforte with mad alacrity, and after a polite request for elizabeth to kick things off—which elizabeth, while super polite, firmly noped out—she sat down.

mrs. hurst and her sister belted out tunes; and while they were vibin’, elizabeth couldn’t help noticing, as she flipped through some music-books on the piano, how mr. darcy’s eyes kept locking on her. she couldn’t wrap her head around how a dude so major could be admiring her—and the thought that he might be checking her out because he wasn’t feeling her was even more sus. in the end, she figured that maybe she caught his eye ‘cause, in his book, there was something extra wrong and sketchy about her compared to anyone else there.{66} but honestly, that theory didn’t even bug her. she liked him way too little to care about his clout.

after jamming some italian tracks, miss bingley switched up the vibe with a bouncy scotch tune; and pretty soon, mr. darcy slid over to elizabeth and said,—

“yo, miss bennet, don’t u feel like grabbing this chance to bust out a reel dance?”

she smiled but ghosted on replying. he asked again, surprised by her silence.

“oh, i heard u earlier; i was just buffering on how to respond. i know you wanted me to drop a ‘yes’ so u could have the pleasure of dissing my taste; but i live for flipping those scripts and screwing up pre-planned shade. so, i’ve decided: i ain’t down for dancing a reel at all; and now, throw your shade if you dare.”

“fr, i definitely ain’t gonna risk it.”

elizabeth, who was kinda expecting to serve him some clapbacks, was totally shook by his smooth moves; but her vibe—a mix of sweetness and cheek—made it super hard to roast anyone, and mr. darcy had never been so starstruck by a woman as he was by her. he seriously believed that if it weren’t for her low-key non-fancy fam, he’d literally be in some serious danger.

miss bingley peeped the tea and got mega sus, and her anxiety over jane’s comeback got even bigger thanks to her lowkey urge to ditch elizabeth. she kept trying to trigger darcy into disliking her guest by dishing on their supposed wedding and planning how perfect his life’d be with that hookup.

“i hope,” she said while strolling through the shrubbery the next day, “you’ll drop some hints to your mother-in-law when that lit event goes down—like, tell her to hold her tongue; and if you can, help curb the young gals chasing after officers. and, if i may drop this delicate tea, try to chill that extra self-love and sass your lady’s rockin’.”

“nah, nah; just stay where u at.”

“u got any other ideas to boost my home vibe?”

“oh yes. make sure your uncle and aunt philips’ portraits get flexed in the pemberley gallery—hang ‘em next to your great-uncle the judge. they’re in the same game, just on diff tracks. and for your elizabeth’s pic, don’t even try to snap it—what artiste could even capture those fire eyes?”

“no cap, it’d be hella tough to catch their whole vibe; but the color, shape, and those on-point lashes might just be replicable.”

at that very moment, mrs. hurst and elizabeth, fresh from another stroll, showed up.

“i had no clue u were planning a walk,” said miss bingley, looking all confused, worried someone might’ve overheard.

“u totally left us on read,” shot mrs. hurst back, “bouncing out without even hitting us up.”

then, hooking mr. darcy’s free arm, she dipped—leaving elizabeth to walk solo. the path could only handle three peeps. mr. darcy caught the major rudeness and immediately was like,—

“this stroll ain’t spacious enough for our squad. we gotta bounce into the avenue.”

but elizabeth, not even vibing to stick around with them, laughed and clapped back,—

“nah, nah; stay put. u guys are hella cute as is, and adding a fourth would totally mess up the aesthetic. laterz.”

she then bounced off, all hyped and carefree, hoping to crash back home in a day or two. jane was already on the mend and planning to dip from her room for a couple of hours that evenin’.{69}

piling up the fire.

chapter xi.

then after dinner, once the ladies dipped, elizabeth sprinted over to her sister, and seeing she was all bundled up against the cold, escorted her into the drawing-room—where her two besties welcomed her with a flood of compliments. elizabeth had never peeped them so chill as they were during that hour before the dudes showed up. their convo skills were next level; they could break down an event with mad precision, drop a funny story with perfect timing, and laugh at their own antics with major spirit.

but when the gentlemen rolled in, jane stopped being the main subject; miss bingley’s eyes immediately locked on darcy, and she had some spicy tea to spill to him before he even took a few steps. darcy hit up miss bennet directly with polite congrats; mr. hurst even gave a slight bow, saying he was “very glad;” but the extra warmth and diffuse charm was all in mr. bingley’s greeting. he was straight-up full of joy and attention. the first half hour was spent stacking up the fire so that she wouldn’t catch a chill from switching rooms; and at his request, she slid over to the other side of the fireplace, putting more distance between her and the door. then he parked himself right beside her and barely chatted with anyone else. elizabeth, busy doing her thing in the opposite corner, watched it all with immense delight.

when tea was over, mr. hurst tried to hype up a card game with his sis-in-law—but, no cap, it fell flat. she’d caught wind that mr. darcy wasn’t down for cards, so mr. hurst’s open invite got straight-up rejected. she assured him that nobody was planning to play, and the entire squad’s silence on the matter confirmed it. so mr. hurst had nothing to do but sprawl out on one of the sofas and crash. darcy grabbed a book. miss bingley did the same; and mrs. hurst, mostly busy flexing her bracelets and rings, occasionally jumped into her brother’s chat with miss bennet.

miss bingley was equally split between peeping at her own book and watching mr. darcy’s page-turning session; she kept dropping inquiries or sneaking glances at his page. but she couldn’t even pull him into a convo—he’d just answer her questions and get back to reading. eventually, totally burnt out from trying to be entertained by her own book (which, tbh, she only picked ‘cause it was the second volume of his), she let out a massive yawn and said, “mannn, how chill is this vibe for an evenin’! honestly, there’s nothing like reading to max out the fun! you’d get bored of everything way faster than you’d ever tire of a book! when i finally get my own crib, i’ll be straight-up miserable if i don’t have a bomb library.”

nobody clapped back. she then yawned again, ditched her book, and scanned the room for some next-level amusement; then, catching her bro mentioning a ball to miss bennet, she spun around and said,—

“btw, charles, u seriously planning a dance sesh at netherfield? i’d totally advise u, before locking it in, to peep what the squad wants; i’d be super wrong if some of us actually find a ball more of a punishment than a vibe.”

“if u talkin’ about darcy,” her brother shot back, “he can totally hit the sack before it starts; but for the ball, that’s a done deal—and once nicholls whips up enough white soup, imma send out my cards.”

“i’d vibe with balls way more if they went down diff—honestly, the usual ball is hella tedious. it’d be way more rational if we just had a convo sesh instead of all that dancing.”

miss bingley made zero response, then promptly bounced up and started cruising around the room like she was on a leisurely flex. her figure was pure elegance, and she strutted like a total runway model; meanwhile, darcy – the main target of her savage vibes – stayed glued to his book, all serious and study-mode on lock. in a last-ditch glow-up of desperation, she threw one extra clout move; spinning to elizabeth she deadass said,  
“miss eliza bennet, let me convince you to vibe with my energy and take a lap around the room. trust, it’s hella refreshing after sitting stuck in one pose for ages.”  

elizabeth was shook but hit back with a straight-up “bet” right away. miss bingley totally nailed the real tea of her faux civility: mr. darcy peeped up. he was as woke to the fresh attention in that zone as elizabeth herself, and lowkey closed his book. he got an instant invite to join their squad, but nah, he dipped, flexing that he could only peep two motives for why they’d choose to cruise the room together – and either motive would clash hard if he jumped in. what was he even tryna say? she was dying to decode his drip and asked elizabeth if she could even get his vibe.  

“not even close,” elizabeth clapped back; “but trust, he’s here to throw major shade on us, and our top-tier move to roast him would be to keep it 100 and ask nada about it.”  

miss bingley, however, wasn’t having any of letting mr. darcy off the hook, so she doubled down, demanding an explanation for his two mysterious motives.  

“i ain’t got no problem explaining,” he started as soon as she gave him the mic. “you either choose this way of kicking it tonight cuz you’re in each other’s inner circle with some secret tea to spill, or cuz you know your looks are on fleek when you stroll – if it’s the first, i’d be totally in your way; and if it’s the second, i can throw major stans at you while i chill by the fire.”  

“oh, shocking!” shrieked miss bingley. “i’ve never peeped anything so sus. how are we gonna roast him for dropping that kinda trash talk?”  

“nothing basic, if you’re down for it,” elizabeth piped up. “we can all throw some playful shade at each other. tease him – crack up at him. given how tight you are, you should know the moves.”  

“but on my honor, i don’t. i swear my squad time hasn’t schooled me on that. how do you even roast chill vibes and a calm mind?! no, no; i feel like he’d totally yeet us with that. and as for laughing, we ain’t about to risk exposing ourselves by laughing for no reason. mr. darcy can just hug his own self.”  

“mr. darcy is not up for being clowned on!” declared elizabeth. “that’s a next-level flex, and i lowkey hope it stays that way, cuz it’d be a major vibe kill for me if my squad got overrun with that kind of energy. i seriously live for a good laugh.”  

“miss bingley,” he shot back, “has way overestimated my drip. the wisest and best of men – nah, even the dopest of moves – can get totally roasted by someone whose main life mode is crackin’ jokes.”  

“for real,” retorted elizabeth, “there are peeps like that, but i truly hope i’m not one of them. i never diss what’s wise or good. silly antics, random quirks, and the wild inconsistency of life do get me laughing whenever i can. but honestly, i think you’re straight lacking in that department.”  

“maybe no one’s ever 100% immune. but i’ve spent my whole life dodging those weak AF moves that leave a killer mind open to ridicule.”  

“like vanity and pride.”  

“yup, vanity is def a weakness. but pride – when you’re rocking a legit superior mind – is always kept in check, no cap.”  

elizabeth swerved away just enough to hide a smirk.  

“your deep dive on mr. darcy is done, i presume,” miss bingley prodded; “so spill, what’s the verdict?”  

“i’m totally convinced mr. darcy is flawless. he straight-up owns it all, no filter.”  

“nah,” darcy interjected coolly, “i didn’t come here claiming to be perfect. i’ve got plenty of faults, but i hope none are about my brainpower. my temper? i can’t vouch for that – it’s, i believe, way too unyielding; def not bending for the world’s convenience. i just can’t forget others’ wild antics or the shade they throw at me fast enough. my feels aren’t hyped up by every little spark. my temper might even be called resentful. once my good opinion dips, it’s gone, period.”  

“that’s a major flaw indeed!” cried elizabeth. “unforgiving beef is such a stain on one’s vibe. but you’ve picked your shortcoming so perfectly that i honestly can’t roast it – you’re all safe with me.”  

“i truly believe that every soul’s got some lowkey toxic trait, a natural glitch that even the best schooling can’t fix.”  

“and your glitch is that you lowkey hate everyone.”  

“and yours,” he shot back with a smile, “is choosing to intentionally misread everyone.”  

“let’s vibe with some music now,” hollered miss bingley, totally over a convo in which she wasn’t even in the mix. “louisa, babe, hit up mr. hurst – wake him up, will ya?”  

her sister didn’t even bat an eye, so the pianoforte got popped on; and darcy, after a minute of realness, wasn’t even mad about it. he started feeling the risk of dropping too many attention vibes on elizabeth.  

chapter xii.  

based on a secret sister pact, elizabeth hit up her mom the next morning to beg for the whip (carriage) to be sent over during the day. but mrs. bennet, who had already planned for her daughters to chill at netherfield until next tuesday – perfectly capping jane’s glow-up week – just couldn’t get hyped about seeing them sooner. so her reply was a total vibe kill for elizabeth, who was straight-up itching to bounce home. mrs. bennet slid them the tea that no carriage was coming before tuesday; and in her extra note she added that if mr. bingley and his sis pressed them to stay longer, she could totally hook them up. still, elizabeth was dead set on the early dip – not even expecting a request for a delay; and lowkey scared of being seen as extra or intruding, she urged jane to snag mr. bingley’s whip immediately. eventually, they agreed that their original plan of peacing out of netherfield that morning should be spelled out and the request dropped.  

this chat sparked a flood of worried AF messages; and plenty of talk about wanting them to stick around at least till the next day to work on jane’s vibe – so their departure got pushed to the following morn. miss bingley ended up regretting her suggestion for a delay, cuz her lowkey jealousy and total dislike for one sister totally outweighed her fake affection for the other.  

the head honcho of the house heard with real bummed vibes that they were about to bounce so soon, and repeatedly tried to convince miss bennet that jane wasn’t totally recovered yet – that it wasn’t safe for her. but jane stayed firm, all like, “i’m solid, fam.”  

mr. darcy was totally vibing with the news: elizabeth had been at netherfield long enough. she had him more shook than he liked; plus, miss bingley was throwing extra shade at her and ribbing him harder than usual. so he wisely locked down, ensuring not one ounce of admiration slipped out – nothing that might give her the hope of cranking his happiness level up. if any such tea had spilled, his behavior the previous day would have either crowned or crushed that notion. on saturday, he barely dropped ten words to her; and even when they got a half-hour alone time, he was hella dedicated to his book, not even stealing a glance her way.  

on sunday, after the morning service, the breakup that nearly everyone vibed with went down. miss bingley’s extra civility toward elizabeth skyrocketed, along with her feigned affection for jane; and when they said their goodbyes – after promising jane that it would always give her mad feels to see her either at longbourn or at netherfield, and giving her a tender embrace (even shaking her hand) – elizabeth bounced from the crew in total high spirits.  

but home wasn’t exactly a welcome back party. mrs. bennet was all over the place, thinking their arrival was super extra and that they were giving her too much hassle, plus she was convinced jane would catch a cold again. meanwhile, their dad, though super chill with his praise, was actually hyped to see them; he totally felt their importance in the fam circle. that evening, when everyone gathered, the convo was way less lit and almost lost all its sense without jane and elizabeth around.  

they found mary, as per usual, deep in her studies of thorough bass vibes and human nature; and she dished out some fresh extracts to stan along with new takes on worn-out morals for them to digest. catherine and lydia dropped a whole different bag of tea. a ton had gone down in the regiment since last wednesday; several officers had recently grubbed with their uncle; a private got straight-up flogged; and rumor had it that colonel forster was on the verge of getting hitched.  

chapter xiii  

“hope, my dear,” mr. bennet started at breakfast the next morning, “that you ordered a bomb dinner today, cuz i got a hunch we’re adding a new face to our fam squad.”  

“who you tryna drop on us, my dear? i don’t know anyone coming, unless charlotte lucas decides to slide thru; and i hope my dinners are fire enough for her. i doubt she usually gets this gourmet at home.”  

“the person i’m talkin’ about is a gentleman and a straight-up stranger.”  

mrs. bennet’s eyes lit up, all sparkly: “a gentleman and a stranger! it’s gotta be mr. bingley, i’m sure. oh, jane—you never dropped a word about this, you sly thing! i’m hella excited to see mr. bingley. but—good lord, how unlucky! there isn’t even a scrap of fish available today. lydia, my love, ring the bell; i gotta chat with hill right now.”  

“it’s not mr. bingley,” her husband clarified, “it’s someone i legit never even seen in my entire life.”  

this sparked a barrage of shock, and soon he found himself being bombarded with questions from his wife and all five daughters.  

after flexin’ with their endless curiosity for a hot minute, he broke it down: “about a month ago i got this letter, and roughly a fortnight back i shot back a reply; i figured it was a super delicate situation that demanded some speedy action. it’s from my cuz, mr. collins, who, when i’m gone for good, might yeet you all outta this house whenever he vibes.”  

“oh, my dear,” wailed his wife, “i can’t even deal with hearing that name. please, no more talk about that odious dude. i seriously think it’s the worst sitch ever that your estate could be locked away from your own kids; honestly, if i were in your shoes, i’d have clapped back ages ago and fixed it.”  

jane and elizabeth attempted to break down what an entail even was – a convo they’d tried before – but mrs. bennet was completely not having any of that logic. she kept throwing major shade about how cruel it was to lock the estate away from a squad of five daughters in favor of some random dude that nobody gives a damn about.  

“it’s seriously the most crooked affair ever,” mr. bennet remarked, “and nothing can clear mr. collins’ rep from snagging longbourn. but if you peep his letter, you might just get a tiny chill from his way with words.”  

“nah, i’m 100% not feelin’ that,” his wife snapped, “and i think it was mad extra and hypocritical of him to hit you up at all. i seriously hate phony friends. why couldn’t he just keep dissin’ you like his dad used to?”  

“well, for real, he did seem to have some basic family feels on that, as you’re about to peep.”  

hunsford, near westerham, kent, 15th october.  

dear sir,  

the beef between you and my late, respected old man always had me shook AF; and since i sadly lost him, i’ve been lowkey wishing to patch up that feud. but for a hot minute, my own doubts held me back, worried that it might come off as mad disrespectful to his memory to be on good terms with someone he always clapped at.  
—there, mrs. bennet.—  
but yo, my mind’s now locked in on this move; cuz i got ordained at easter, and lowkey got blessed by the patronage of the right honourable lady catherine de bourgh, widow of sir lewis de bourgh – a total queen who hyped me up to snag the rectory of this parish. there, i’m gonna flex grateful vibes and always be ready to drop those church-approved rituals.  

as a clergyman, i also feel it’s my duty to spread and lock in peace for all the fams within my circle; and on that grind, i lowkey rate my current goodwill overtures as mad impressive, and that the fact i’m next in line for the longbourn estate should be totally overlooked on your end – not enough to make you yeet my olive branch.  

i can’t help but feel stressed about possibly messing with your lovely daughters, so i beg your pardon in advance and promise i’ll do everything to make it up to them – but more deets on that later. if you’re cool with having me at your crib, i propose to roll through and flex at your place on monday, november 18th, at four o’clock, and i’ll probably crash your pad until the following saturday night, which i can do with zero inconvenience since lady catherine is chill with me skipping sundays, provided some other clergyman holds the fort for that day.  

i remain, dear sir, with respectful shoutouts to your lady and daughters, your ride-or-die and homie,  
william collins.  

“at four o’clock, therefore, we may expect this peace-making gentleman,” mr. bennet mused as he folded up the letter, “he seems like a super conscientious and polite young dude, my word; and i’m betting he’ll turn out to be a clutch acquaintance – especially if lady catherine vibes him back for another round with us.”  

“there’s some sense in what he says about the girls, though; and if he’s down to make any amends, i’m not about to stop him.”  

“even tho it’s mad hard to figure out how he plans on making us whole for what he thinks is owed, i gotta say his wish is still kinda lit,” said jane.  

elizabeth was mostly shook by his extra deference toward lady catherine, and his thoughtful plan to christen, marry, and even bury his parish peeps whenever needed.  

“he’s gotta be such a weird vibe, i think,” she remarked. “i just can’t decode him. there’s mad pomp in his drip. and what’s up with apologizing for being next in line for the estate? we can’t assume he could’ve helped it anyway. is he actually a sensible dude, sir?”  

“nah, my dear; i don’t think so. i’m lowkey hyped to find him totally the opposite. his letter mixes some serious servility with major self-importance, which, oddly enough, shows promise. i’m legit on edge to meet him.”  

“composition-wise,” said mary, “his letter ain’t missing any key deets. the olive branch vibe might not be totally new, but i gotta admit, it’s well expressed.”  

to catherine and lydia, both the letter and its author were, like, totally uninteresting. it was nearly impossible for their cuz to roll up in a scarlet coat, and it’d been weeks since they’d caught any buzz from a dude in any color but that. as for their mother, mr. collins’s letter had basically canceled out most of her shade, and she was gearing up to meet him with a chill composure that had her husband and daughters totally shook.  

mr. collins was hella punctual and got greeted with mad politeness by the whole fam. mr. bennet kept his words to a minimum, but the ladies were all over the convo, and mr. collins didn’t seem to need any extra hype nor did he lean into silence. he was a tall, heavy-looking young dude of twenty-five. his vibe was all grave and stately, and his manners were beyond formal. barely had he settled in when he started flexing compliments on mrs. bennet for raising such a fine crew of daughters, saying he’d heard tons about their beauty – though, in person, the reputation didn’t quite hit the mark – and added that he was sure she’d see them all, in no time, snatched up in epic marriages. that extra gallantry wasn’t really the flavor of some of his listeners; but mrs. bennet, who clapped back at any compliment thrown her way, fired back instantly,  

“you are mad kind, sir, i’m sure; and i wish with all my heart it goes that way, cuz otherwise, they’ll be hella destitute. things are just so extra right now.”  

“you’re probably throwin’ shade at the entailment of this estate.”  

“ah, sir, i definitely am. it’s a major buzzkill for my poor girls, you gotta admit. not that i’m tryna throw shade at you – these things are all random af in this world. nobody knows how estates will roll once they’re entailed.”  

“i totally get, madam, how rough it is for my fine cousins, and i could unload a whole saga on it, but i’m keeping it lowkey so i don’t come off as extra. but i can assure the young ladies that i come ready to admire them. for now, i’ll keep it 100 and maybe add more once we’re more acquainted——”  

he got cut off by a dinner summons, and all the girls shared smirks. they weren’t the only ones mr. collins was vibin’ with. he methodically inspected the hall, dining room, and every piece of furniture, dropping praises left and right; and his non-stop compliments would’ve warmed mrs. bennet’s heart if it wasn’t for the cringe factor of eyeing it all as his future loot. the dinner itself was hella admired, and he even asked which one of his fine cousins was behind that killer cookery. but mrs. bennet clapped him back with some serious asperity, assuring him that they were more than capable of keeping a fire cook on deck and that her daughters had zero business in the kitchen. he pleaded for forgiveness for offending her, and in a softer tone she declared she wasn’t even mad; yet he kept apologizing for, like, a solid quarter of an hour.  

chapter xiv.

uring dinner, mr. bennet was basically on silent mode, like total ghost vibes; but once the servants yeeted out, he was like “yo, time to spill the tea with my guest” and dropped a convo topic he was sure would let his guest flex hard – pointing out that he was mad lucky with his patroness. lady catherine de bourgh was straight-up on his side, catering to his every whim and keeping him comfy in a way that was totally next-level. mr. bennet legit couldn’t have picked a better squad leader. mr. collins, on the other hand, came in spitting praises like he was reciting his favorite meme. the topic got him all extra-serious, and with a major “look at me” face he insisted he’d never peeped such royal chill and friendly down-low vibes from someone of high rank – the same kind of affable, lowkey condescending drip he always got from lady catherine. she’d been hella gracious approving every single sermon he’d dropped before her, and she even hit him up twice for dinner at rosings, sliding into his messages only the saturday before to round up her quadrille crew for some evening tea. even though lady catherine gets a rep for being majorly snobby, mr. bennet had only ever seen her as a super affable queen. she’d chat him up like any other dude, and never threw any shade about him joining the local squad or even peacing out from his parish for a week or two to vibe with his fam. she even lowkey advised him to lock in a wedding ASAP, as long as he picked wisely, and once even dropped by his humble parsonage to give a nod to all the renovations he was making – and even slid in her own tip, like “bro, how about some fresh shelves in the upstairs closets?”

“yo, that’s hella proper and civil, i’m sure,” said mrs. bennet, “and i dare say she’s a super chill woman. such a bummer that most high-class ladies aren’t riding on her vibe. does she live close by, sir?”

“my chill garden, where my humble crib sits, is just a lane away from rosings park – that’s her ladyship’s spot.”

“i thought you said she was a widow, sir? got any fam?”

“she’s got one daughter – the ultimate heiress of rosings, and she’s ballin’ with mad property.”

“ah,” cried mrs. bennet, shaking her head, “then she’s flexing way harder than most girls. so, what’s the vibe on her? is she fine?”

“she’s, like, one charming queen, no cap. lady catherine herself says that in the game of true beauty, miss de bourgh totally outshines the dopest of her crew – cuz there’s that regal drip in her features that screams distinguished birth. unfortunately, she’s got a weak constitution, so she can’t really flex on a lot of accomplishments she’d normally crush, according to the lady who ran her schooling and still chills with them. but yo, she’s super amiable and sometimes even rides by my humble pad in her cute lil phaeton with her squad of ponies.”

“has she been presented? i mean, i don’t recall her flexing in the court scene.”

“her sus health situation lowkey keeps her out of town; and like i told lady catherine one day, that’s a major loss for the british court – it’s missin’ its brightest ornament. lady catherine was all about that, so you can bet i’m always down to drop those delicate, fire compliments that ladies dig. i’ve told lady catherine more than once that her charming daughter was basically born to be a duchess; and that even the highest rank would glow up just by her presence. those are the drip moves that light up lady catherine, and i feel, like, totally obliged to serve them.”

“mr. bennet, you’re spot on,” said mr. bennet, “and it’s hella lucky you got that knack for delicate flattery. so, are these fire compliments just off the cuff, or is there some pregame research?”

“they’re mostly vibe-of-the-moment, though i sometimes craft a few elegant, situational compliments for kicks – but i always aim to keep it unscripted, straight up.”

mr. bennet’s expectations were totally met. his cuz was as extra as he’d hoped, and mr. bennet soaked it all in with mad enjoyment while keeping his chill, unbothered face – only occasionally peeking over at elizabeth, like he didn’t even need a hype man for his own fun.

by teatime, the dose of extra had been enough, and mr. bennet was hella glad to drag his guest back into the drawing room; and when tea wrapped up, he was stoked to invite him to read aloud to the ladies. mr. collins was like, “bet,” and pulled out a book; but when he peeped it – since everything screamed “circulating library vibes” – he totally yeeted back, apologizing and insisting, “sorry, i never read novels, no cap.” kitty shot him a dead stare while lydia straight-up exclaimed. a few more books got tossed out, and after some serious deliberation, he picked “fordyce’s sermons.” lydia was shook as he cracked open the volume; and before he could monotonously read three pages like a total robotic preacher, she interrupted with:

“do you know, mamma, that my uncle phillips is lowkey talking about ghosting richard? and if that goes down, colonel forster’s gonna snatch him up. my aunt even slid that deets to me last saturday. imma walk over to meryton tomorrow to catch more tea and see when mr. denny drops back from town.”

lydia’s two older sisters were like, “shh, chill, sis,” but mr. collins, feeling majorly disrespected, put his book down and snapped:

“i’ve noticed time and again that young ladies barely vibe with serious books – even ones written just for their benefit. it blows my mind, no cap; because honestly, nothing is as clutch for their knowledge as some solid instruction. but i’m done pushin’ my young cuz.”

then, turning to mr. bennet, he slid over a challenge to face him in a backgammon showdown. mr. bennet accepted, thinking it was super smart to leave the girls to their own silly amusements. mrs. bennet and her daughters apologized all polite-like for lydia’s interruption and promised to keep it on the DL if he’d just get back to his book; but mr. collins, after assuring them he held zero grudges and wouldn’t even take her behavior as an insult, scooted to another table with mr. bennet to gear up for some serious backgammon.

chapter xv.

r. collins was, like, totally not a sensible dude, and his natural lacks were hardly fixed by any proper education or society – he spent most of his life under the strict, stingy thumb of his illiterate dad. even though he was enrolled at a university, he barely did the basics and never really made any real connections. his dad’s strict upbringings gave him a dose of original humility, but that was majorly countered by his weak brain’s self-love, living in chill retirement, and the sudden bag of unexpected prosperity. a wild stroke of luck slid him right into lady catherine de bourgh’s good books when the hunsford living got vacant; and his mad respect for her high-key status, mixed with his own delusions of clergyman authority and rector rights, turned him into a crazy cocktail of overblown pride and mega sycophancy, layering self-importance with a pinch of humility.

now rocking a sweet crib and mad cash flow, he was all set to get hitched; and in his bid to make peace with the longbourn fam, he had his eye on a wife – planning to snag one of the daughters, assuming they lived up to the hype for being fine and chill. this was his grand redemption move for snagging their father’s estate; and he thought it was an epic plan, loaded with eligibility, extreme appropriateness, and his own extra generous, totally disinterested vibe.

his plan didn’t wobble when he peeped the family. miss bennet’s stunning mug totally confirmed his views and locked in all his strict notions about seniority; and for the first night, she was his locked-in choice. but come morning, things switched up; in a 15-minute tête-à-tête with mrs. bennet before brekkie – starting off chatting about his parsonage and sliding into his hopes that longbourn might score a new mistress – mrs. bennet, with chill smiles and full-on encouragement, dropped a subtle yet major hint against jane, the girl he’d originally set his sights on. “about her younger daughters, i can’t really commit – no solid answer – but as for her eldest, i gotta hint that she’s probs about to get hitched real soon.”

mr. collins just had to swap his focus from jane to elizabeth – and boom, it was done – all while mrs. bennet stirred up the fire. elizabeth, next in line to jane in both birth and beauty, naturally slid into the role.

mrs. bennet totally stashed that hint in her back pocket, convinced she’d soon net two married daughters; and the guy she couldn’t even stomach dissing yesterday suddenly became high on her good graces.

lydia’s plan to stroll over to meryton was totally not missed – every sis except mary was down to roll with her; and mr. collins got dragged along at mr. bennet’s request, who was lowkey dying to yeet him out and reclaim his library. mr. collins had been tailing him since brekkie, claiming to be immersed in one of the biggest folios in the collection, while really just chit-chatting nonstop with mr. bennet about his hunsford crib and garden. this constant run-on chatter had mr. bennet majorly triggered – his library was his chill zone, his safe space free of dumb talk; although he was totally prepped, as he told elizabeth, to handle dumb clout elsewhere in the house, he was used to a drama-free library. so, staying mega civil, he straight-up invited mr. collins to join his daughters on their walk; and mr. collins, who was def built for walking over reading, was super hyped to shut his chunky book and bounce.

with mr. collins spouting pompous nothings on one end and his cousins throwing civil nods on the other, they rolled on until they hit meryton. but by then, mr. collins had totally lost the young crowd – their eyes were already scanning the street for officers, and nothing less than a sick bonnet or a fresh shop-window muslin could snag their attention.

then, every lady’s eyeballs got snagged by a fresh young dude with major gentleman vibes, casually strolling with an officer on the opposite side. that officer? none other than mr. denny – the very same guy lydia was buzzing about from his london return – who even bowed as they passed by.

everyone was shook by the stranger’s drip, all like “who tf is this?” so kitty and lydia, on a mission for deets, led the charge across the street under the pretense of needing something from a nearby shop, and barely hit the pavement when the two gents flipped back into the same spot.

mr. denny went straight up, “allow me to introduce my buddy, mr. wickham,” who had rolled back with him from town just the day before and, no cap, snagged a commission in their corps. this was peak, since the young dude was all about regimental looks to boost his charm. his appearance was totally on fleek – packing all the highest-tier beauty, a lit face, a solid figure, and an epic way of talking.

mr. wickham then jumped in with a super chill convo that was both dead correct and humble; and the entire squad was vibing and chatting away, when suddenly the clatter of horses had everyone look up – darcy and bingley were riding down the street.

spotting the ladies, the two gents slid over and kicked off the usual formalities. bingley took the lead as the main spokesman, with miss bennet as his ultimate muse. he was, he said, on his way to longbourn just to check on her. mr. darcy backed him up with a respectful bow, and was about to promise to keep his gaze off elizabeth, when both got totally snagged by the sight of that stranger; and elizabeth, catching the look in both their eyes as they stared at each other, was completely shook. one face went ghost white while the other blushed red. then, after a few beats, mr. wickham casually touched his hat – a salute that mr. darcy half-heartedly returned. like, what even did that mean? no one could stitch it together; it was impossible not to be dying to know more.

literally a minute later, mr. bingley, acting like nothing was up, bounced with his friend and rode off.

mr. denny and mr. wickham then strolled with the young ladies to the doorstep of mr. philips’s house, bowed out, even though miss lydia was literally pleading for them to come inside and mrs. philips was hollering from the parlour window to come on in, doubling down on the invite.

mrs. philips was always hyped to see her nieces; and the two oldest, fresh from their little escapade, were extra welcome. she was lowkey buzzing over their sudden drop-in – something she wouldn’t have known about if their own ride hadn’t snubbed them, but she caught the tea from mr. jones’s shopboy, who spilled that no more drafts were headed to netherfield cuz the miss bennets had bounced. later, when jane introduced mr. collins, her civility got real, and she greeted him with her top-tier politeness – which he matched by apologizing for crashing unannounced, even though they weren’t previously tight (though he lowkey credited his connection to the young ladies who repped him). mrs. philips was totally in awe of such top-notch breeding; but her focus on one stranger was quickly hijacked by exclamations and Qs about the other – of whom she could only remind her nieces that mr. denny had scooped him up from london and that he was set to get a lieutenant’s commission in the ——shire. she said she’d been peeping him pacing the street for the past hour, and if mr. wickham had shown up, kitty and lydia would have been all over him; but sadly, only a few bored officers strolled by, and next to the stranger, they looked like “stupid, disagreeable fellows.” some of those officers were slated to dine with the philipses the next day, and their aunt promised to have her husband swing by mr. wickham’s and drop an invite too, if the longbourn fam cruised in that evening. all was agreed; and mrs. philips then declared they’d have a cozy, loud game of lottery tickets followed by some hot supper. the prospect of such delights was mad cheering, and they split out on mutual good vibes. mr. collins repeated his apologies as he bailed from the room, and was assured, with nonstop civility, that he wasn’t needed.

on the walk home, elizabeth recapped to jane all the deets she’d peeped between the two gents; though jane would have had their backs if they’d been in the wrong, she honestly couldn’t explain that wild behavior any better than her sister.

mr. collins, on his way back, totally hyped up mrs. bennet by gushing over mrs. philips’s manners and chill vibes. he insisted that, besides lady catherine and her daughter, he’d never seen a more elegant woman; she not only treated him like pure royalty, but also made a point of including him in her invite for the next evening, even though he was a complete stranger to her before. he figured it might’ve been because of his connections, but honestly, he’d never been hit with this kind of attention in his entire life.

chapter xvi.

so, no one threw shade on the youngins hanging with their aunt, and all of mr. collins’s hesitations about ditching mr. and mrs. bennet for a single evening during his visit got straight-up shut down. the coach dropped him and his five cousins off at meryton at just the right hour; and the girls were hyped to hear, as soon as they stepped into the drawing room, that mr. wickham had peaced out to take up their uncle’s invite and was already in the crib.

once that tea was spilled and everyone sat down, mr. collins chilled and scanned the room, and he was so shook by the size and furniture of the place that he declared he might just be in the summer breakfast lounge at rosings – a comparison that didn’t land as a major flex at first; but when mrs. philips got the lowdown on what rosings really was and who ran it, after hearing him drop that the fireplace piece alone cost eight hundred pounds, she caught the compliment so hard she wouldn’t have minded being compared to the housekeeper’s room.

mr. collins went off for a rant, describing all the grandeur of lady catherine and her mega mansion, tossing in the occasional flex about his own humble pad and its upgrades, and he was totally in his element until the gents joined the circle. he found mrs. philips to be such an attentive listener – her respect for his “big deal” status leveling up with every word – and she was already plotting to spill the tea to all her neighbours ASAP. meanwhile, the girls, who couldn’t even vibe with their cousin and had nothing better than to daydream about some cool gadget or to critique their own lame china imitations on the mantelpiece, felt that the wait was dragging on forever. but eventually, it was all done.

the gents eventually rolled up, and when mr. wickham strolled into the room, elizabeth was like, “i’ve never been lowkey obsessed with him before or since, no cap.” the officers of the ——shire were generally a solid, gentlemanly set – and the best of them were in the party – but mr. wickham was on another level; his looks, vibe, swagger, and strut were totally next-gen, just like they were way superior to that broad-faced, stuffy uncle philips blowing port wine who trailed behind.

mr. wickham was the ultimate vibe, with almost every female eye glued on him, and elizabeth was the lucky queen he eventually parked himself next to; plus, his smooth convo – even if it was just about a drippy night and a rainy season on the horizon – made her feel like even the most basic topic could glow up with his skills.

with mr. wickham and the officers stealing all the spotlight from the ladies, mr. collins faded into total background noise – to the young ladies, he was basically nothing; but every now and then, mrs. philips would give him a bit of attention, and she made sure he was constantly hooked up with coffee and muffins.

when the card tables were finally set up, mr. collins jumped at the chance to return the favor by sitting down to play whist. he deadpanned, “i know literally nothing about this game rn, but imma get better – for in my situation of life——” mrs. philips was super stoked he was down to improve, but she was literally on the edge waiting to hear his epic reason.

mr. wickham wasn't even playing whist, and he slid over to the other table between elizabeth and lydia with mad hype.  
at first, it looked like lydia was gonna totally hog him, since she was a relentless chatterbox; but being hella into lottery tickets too, she got so distracted by the game—making wild bets and yelling over every prize drop—that she couldn’t even peep anyone else. with the game totally stealing lydia’s brainspace, mr. wickham had plenty of chill time to chat up elizabeth, and she was all ears—even though what she really craved was the tea on his hookup with mr. darcy, a deets drop she knew was strictly off-limits (she couldn’t even say his name, no cap).  

but plot twist: her curiosity got unexpectedly satisfied when mr. wickham himself slid into that convo. he asked, all casual, how far netherfield was from meryton; and after she dropped the answer, he hesitated then hit her with, “so, how long’s mr. darcy been crashing there?”  

“about a month,” elizabeth shot back, and then, not ready to dip, added, “i heard he’s rolling in property out in derbyshire.”  

“yessir,” wickham clapped back, “his crib there is straight up epic—a clear ten thousand a year, no cap. you wouldn’t find anyone more qualified to drop the tea on that than me—I’ve been lowkey connected with his fam since i was a lil’ meme in diapers.”  

elizabeth totally looked shook.  

“well, miss bennet, you might be shook at that claim, especially after our ice-cold first meet yesterday. so, are you even tight with mr. darcy?”  

“as much as i ever wish to be, fr,” elizabeth exclaimed warmly, “i spent four days with him and, lowkey, i found him mega disagreeable.”  

“i ain’t about to drop my honest opinion on whether he’s chill or not,” wickham continued, “because i’m not exactly impartial—i’ve been in his mix too long. but i bet your take on him would seriously shock the whole squad—and maybe you wouldn’t spit it so hard anywhere else, but here it’s all fam vibes.”  

“honestly, i say no more here than i would anywhere else in the neighborhood—except netherfield, where he’s mad disliked in hertfordshire. literally every single person is over his obnoxious pride; trust, you won’t hear anyone hyping him up any more than this.”  

“i ain’t gonna fake sorry that he—or any dude—doesn’t get mad props beyond his dues; but in his case, that rarely happens. the world’s blinded by his cash and clout, or maybe freaked out by his extra high-key vibes, so they only peep him as he wants to be seen.”  

“i’d peep him as one seriously ill-tempered dude,” elizabeth remarked.  

wickham just shook his head.  

“i wonder,” he mused on the next beat, “if he’s even gonna stick around in this country for much longer.”  

“i don’t really know; but i didn’t catch any tea about him bouncing when i was at netherfield. i hope your plans for the ——shire aren’t gonna get sus just because he’s in the hood.”  

“oh no—i’m not about to let mr. darcy boot me just 'cause he wants to dodge me. if he’s tryna ghost me, he can just dip. we’re not on bro mode, and honestly, every meet-up with him hits me in the feels. my only reason to avoid him? so i can shout it to the world: i’m seriously hurt, and full of regrets about him being what he is. his pops, miss bennet, the late mr. darcy, was one of the dopest dudes ever and my true ride-or-die; i can’t even chill with this mr. darcy without my soul getting wrecked by a thousand soft flashbacks. what he did to me was straight-up scandalous—but i swear, i’d forgive him anything except messing up his father’s epic legacy.”  

elizabeth’s interest in the tea totally leveled up, and she tuned in with all her heart; yet her delicate sensibilities kept her from grilling him further.  

mr. wickham then switched gears to general chitchat—spilling deets about meryton, the 'hood, and society. he was hella stoked about all the vibes he’d peeped, and when it came to society itself, he dropped his lines with smooth, crystal-clear gallantry.  

“tbh, the promise of nonstop squad vibes and bomb-ass society was what lured me into the ——shire,” he added. “i know it’s a super respectable, chill crew; and my boy denny hyped me up with the tea on their current digs, plus all the major attention and dope connections meryton hooked them up with. society is a must for me—I’ve been majorly disappointed before, and my mood can’t handle being solo. i need work, i need squad goals. a military hustle wasn’t my original blueprint, but now the circumstances made it a vibe. honestly, i was born for the church; i was raised for that life, and if that gentleman we just talked about had given the go-ahead, i’d be set with a baller living right now.”  

“indeed!”  

“yup—the late mr. darcy actually left me his next presentation at the best living he could offer. he was like my godpop and super attached to me. i can’t even do justice to his kindness. he truly meant to hook me up big time and thought he nailed it; but when the living dropped, it got snatched by someone else.”  

“omg!” elizabeth squealed, “how could that even go down? how did they just brush off his will? why didn’t you go legal on that?”  

“the bequest was so chill and informal that taking it to court was never even an option. any dude with honor would’ve been crystal clear on his intent, but mr. darcy decided to doubt it—like, treat it as just a conditional rec and claim i forfeited my shot by being extra, imprudent, basically anything or nothing. for real, the living became vacant two years ago, just as i hit the right age to claim it, and boom—it went to another guy; and i can honestly say, i didn’t do anything so extra to deserve losing it. sure, i’ve got a warm, unguarded temper and might’ve dropped my opinions on him a bit too freely—i can’t recall anything worse—but bottom line, we’re totally different breeds, and he straight-up hates me.”  

“this is mad shocking! he totally deserves to get roasted in public.”  

“he will get roasted eventually—but not by me. until i can forget his pops, i’m never gonna go off or expose him.”  

elizabeth had mad respect for his raw feels and even found him handsomer than ever when he spat them out.  

“but yo,” she paused, “what do you think his motive was? what made him act so savage?”  

“it’s a deep, determined lowkey dislike of me—a vibe i gotta chalk up to jealousy. if the late mr. darcy had been less into me, his son might have been chill; but his dad’s extra attachment to me seriously ticked him off way back when. he just couldn’t handle the competition—the constant favoritism i used to get.”  

“i never pegged mr. darcy as this extra savage—i mean, i’ve never been his biggest fan, but i didn’t think he was that extra evil. i always figured he just looked down on people in general, not stooping to such brutal revenge, such injustice, such inhumanity!”  

after a hot minute of thinking, she added, “i do recall him flexing at netherfield one day, going off about never letting go of his grudges and having a no-chill temper. his vibe must be absolutely dreadful.”  

“i ain’t even gonna drop my take on that,” wickham replied, “because i can’t really be unbiased when it comes to him.”  

elizabeth went deep in her feels again, and after a sec, she exclaimed, “to treat someone like the godson, the ride-or-die, the fave of his pops like that is just wild!” she could’ve added, “like a young dude, just like you, whose whole face screams ‘i’m super chill,’” but she kept it to, “and someone who was likely his childhood homie, bonded hella tight, as i think you mentioned.”  

“we were born in the same parish, in the same park—basically, most of our youth was a group project: roommates, sharing the same playtimes, all under the same parental care. my dad started off in the gig that your uncle, mr. phillips, gets mad props for; but he dropped everything to be of service to the late mr. darcy, dedicating all his time to managing the pemberley crib. mr. darcy held my dad in the highest regard, like he was his closest bro. mr. darcy always admitted he owed a massive debt to my dad’s hustle; and right before my dad passed, mr. darcy promised him on the down-low to hook me up—i’m convinced it was as much a debt of gratitude as it was pure affection.”  

“that’s wild! so damn nasty! i can’t believe mr. darcy’s pride hasn’t made him play fair with you. if nothing else, he should’ve been too cocky to even be shady—for real, that’s just straight-up dishonesty.”  

“it’s crazy, i swear—nearly every move he makes comes from his ego, and that pride is like his ride-or-die partner. it even levels him up in virtue sometimes. but yo, none of us are ever 100 percent here; when it comes to me, he had other, stronger vibes at play than just pride.”  

“can someone with that extra nasty pride ever actually come up good?”  

“yeah; that same pride often turns him into a straight-up softie—dropping cash like it’s nothing, flexing mad hospitality, helping his tenants, and even coming for the poor. his family pride, and that son vibe (being super extra proud of his pops), seriously drives him. he doesn’t wanna trash his fam’s rep or lose the pemberley clout, so that’s a major flex. plus, he’s got that brotherly pride too, which—mixed with some solid sibling love—makes him an insanely caring guardian for his sis; and honestly, you always hear people crowing about him as the most on-point, chillest brother ever.”  

“so, what’s the vibe on miss darcy as a girl?”  

he just shook his head. “man, i wish i could call her chill. it seriously hurts to diss a darcy, but she’s just way too much like her bro—crazy, crazy proud. when she was a kid, she was all affectionate and sweet, and super into me; i spent endless hours just keeping her entertained. but now? she’s just a fine-looking girl, like fifteen or sixteen, and i hear she’s hella accomplished. since her dad dipped, her crib’s been in london, where some lady’s basically running her education.”  

after loads of pauses and topic hops, elizabeth circled back to the original tea and said,  

“i’m legit shook by how tight he is with mr. bingley. like, how can mr. bingley—who’s one chill, super upbeat, and honestly, a total sweetheart—be tight with a dude like him? how do they even mesh? you know mr. bingley, right?”  

“nah, not at all.”  

“mr. bingley is all sweet and calm, a total charmer. he literally has no clue about mr. darcy’s shady moves.”  

“probably not; but mr. darcy only vibes when it suits him. he’s not about that skillful chatter—he can be a conversable homie if he’s feeling it. among those in his rich circle, he’s a whole different beast than when he’s chillin’ with the less loaded. his pride sticks with him, but with the rich, he’s liberal-minded, just, sincere, rational, honorable, and maybe even kinda likable—if you factor in his fortune and looks.”  

after the whist sesh broke up, the squad bounced over to the other table, and mr. collins slid into the seat between his cuz elizabeth and mrs. phillips.  

mrs. phillips did her standard check-up on his gameplay. he totally bombed it—lost every single point; but when mrs. phillips started stressing about it, he solemnly assured her it was zero drama; that he was treating the cash as a total non-issue, and begged her not to get all anxious.  

“i totally get it, madam,” mr. collins replied, “that when you hit the card table, you gotta take your chances—and luckily, i’m not in a spot where five shillings mean anything. sure, plenty of folks would be sweating it; but yo, thanks to lady catherine de bourgh, i’m living way above stressing over small change.”  

mr. wickham peeped the scene; after eyeing mr. collins for a hot minute, he leaned over and, in a low voice, asked elizabeth if her fam was super tight with the de bourgh crew.  

“lady catherine de bourgh has, like, just dropped him a living,” she replied, “and i honestly don’t know how mr. collins first got on her radar, but it’s clear he hasn’t been in her circle long.”  

“obviously, you know that lady catherine de bourgh and lady anne darcy were sisters—so she’s basically mr. darcy’s aunt now.”  

“no, i had no clue. i knew absolutely nothing about lady catherine’s fam—never even heard of her until like, the day before yesterday.”  

“her daughter, miss de bourgh, is gonna be rolling in dough, and word is she and her cousin are about to merge the two estates.”  

this tea got elizabeth smirking, as she thought about poor miss bingley. like, all that extra hype, all that useless love for his sis and his self-praise is pure vanity if he’s already off to someone else.  

“mr. collins,” she said, “is droppin’ mad props on lady catherine and her daughter; but from some of the deets he’s shared about her ladyship, i’m thinking his gratitude is totally clouding his judgment—and that, despite her being his patron, she’s really one arrogant, extra woman.”  

“i reckon she’s mega extra,” replied wickham; “i haven’t peeped her in years, but i clearly remember never vibing with her—her style was all dictatorial and straight-up insolent. sure, she’s reputed to be wicked smart and sensible, but honestly, i think that’s partly thanks to her elite status, partly her bossy aura, and, not to miss, a slice of her nephew’s pride, who makes sure everyone in his squad is top-tier.”  

elizabeth was like, “fair enough,” and they kept vibing and trading tea with mutual satisfaction until supper ended the cards, giving the other ladies their fix of mr. wickham’s charm. even though mrs. phillips’s supper crew was noisy as heck, mr. wickham’s every word was lit and every move was on point. elizabeth bounced with her head buzzing full of him—she couldn’t stop thinking about mr. wickham and all his epic deets all the way home; but there wasn’t even a sec to drop his name, since both lydia and mr. collins went non-stop. lydia wouldn’t quit—she kept on about lottery tickets, the fish she lost, and the ones she bagged; and mr. collins, detailing the mad civility of mr. and mrs. phillips, insisting he didn’t sweat his whist losses, listing every single dish at supper, and obsessing over crowding his cousins, talked so much that he nearly overflowed the convo before the ride hit longbourn house.  

delighted to see their dear friend again.  

chapter xvii.  

the next day, elizabeth spilled to jane all the deets about what went down with mr. wickham and her. jane listened in shock and concern; she couldn’t wrap her head around how mr. darcy could be so unworthy of mr. bingley’s epic vibe, and yet she wasn’t the type to doubt the realness of a guy as charmingly amiable as wickham. the thought that he might’ve honestly taken such brutal L’s tugged at all her soft feels; so all that was left was to vibe positively about them both—defending each move and chalking up any extra drama as just an accident or major miscommunication.  

“they’ve both, i dare say, been totally played in ways we can’t even imagine. maybe some nosy peeps twisted the tea between them. essentially, it’s impossible for us to guess what real causes or vibes drove them apart without throwing blame on either side.”  

“so true; and now, dear jane, what do you say about those extra folks who probably stirred up all this business? spill the tea on them too, or we’re gonna have to throw shade on someone.”  

“laugh all you want, but you ain’t gonna meme me out of my opinion. my dearest lizzy, just think how cringe it is for mr. darcy to treat his dad’s fave like that—someone his pops promised to hook up big time. it’s impossible. no dude with any real humanity or solid character could ever do that. can even his closest friends be so duped by him? oh, hell no.”  

“i can way more believe that mr. bingley got played than that mr. wickham made up that entire backstory last night—names, facts, all dropped with zero ceremony. if it’s off, let mr. darcy clap back. besides, his whole vibe was totally on the level.”  

“it’s so confusing—totally distressing. nobody knows what to even think.”  

“pardon me—but i know exactly what i’m thinkin.”  

yet jane could only be 100 percent on one thing—that if mr. bingley got played, he’d be taking massive L’s when the tea goes viral.  

the two girls got peeped from the shrubbery—turns out, the very people they’d been dishing about showed up. mr. bingley and his sisters rolled in with a personal invite to the long-awaited netherfield ball, set for next tuesday. the girls were hella happy to see their fave friend again, saying it’s been forever, and kept asking what she’d been up to since they last hung. for the rest of the fam, they were lowkey ghosting them—avoiding mrs. bennet like the plague, barely dropping a word to elizabeth, and nothing at all to the others. they bounced real quick, springing from their seats with so much energy it totally caught their brother off guard, rushing out like they were tryna escape mrs. bennet’s forced pleasantries.  

the prospect of the netherfield ball was straight up fire for every lady in the fam. mrs. bennet saw it as the ultimate shoutout to her eldest daughter and was super flattered that mr. bingley himself slid an invite instead of some boring card. jane was vibing on a vision of a bomb evening with her besties and soaking up their brother’s attention; and elizabeth was hyped about locking in mad dances with mr. wickham and getting a solid confirmation of everything in mr. darcy’s enigmatic vibe. the joy anticipated by catherine and lydia wasn’t pinned on one single moment or person—even though, like elizabeth, they planned to dance at least half the night with mr. wickham, he wasn’t their only potential dance partner, and at the end of the day, a ball is a ball. even mary was cool with it, insisting she had zero objections.  

“while i get my solo morning vibes,” she said, “it’s enough. i mean, joining an evening hang every now and then isn’t a sacrifice. society calls us all—I’m totally down for those chill intervals of recreation and amusement that everyone needs.”

elizabeth was riding the ultimate hype train that day—even though she usually kept her chats with mr. collins on the down-low, she just had to slide in and ask, “yo, mr. collins, you gonna accept mr. bingley’s lit invite? and if so, you planning on joining the evening’s epic dance-off?” and she was lowkey shook to discover he had zero cringe or qualms about busting a move, not even worried about a roast from the archbishop or lady catherine de bourgh.

“i ain’t tryna say, no cap, that a ball thrown by a young dude of solid rep for a squad of respectable peeps can ever go sideways; and i’m totally down to break it on the dance floor myself, so i’m expecting to be snagged by all my fly cousins through the night. plus, i’m taking this chance to ask you, miss elizabeth, if you’ll save me the honor of those first two dances—something i trust my cousin jane will chalk up to legit taste, not a diss to her,” mr. collins declared with all the pomp.

elizabeth was totally bamboozled. she had already planned on locking in mr. wickham for exactly those dances—so having mr. collins pop up with this offer was majorly off-timed. but no cap, there was nothing she could do about it; both her own glow and wickham’s fun had to be postponed a little longer, and she accepted mr. collins’s proposal with as much chill as she could muster. she wasn’t even extra thrilled by his moves, which screamed that there might be, like, more to it. it hit her hard: out of all her sisters, she was the one deemed worthy of bossing hunsford parsonage and helping set up the quadrille table at rosings when all the hotter players skipped town. this thought only cemented as she noticed his extra polite vibes and constant attempts to drop compliments on her snappy wit and fire energy; and even though she was more shook than stoked by his advances, her mom soon slid in that the whole marriage plot was, like, super agreeable. elizabeth, however, wasn’t about to catch that hint—she knew any reply would spark a full-on drama sesh. mr. collins might never even drop the offer again, so until he did, she wasn’t tryna beef with him.

if it weren’t for the netherfield ball to hype up and chat about, the younger bennets would be straight-up wrecked right about now; since the invite day, the rain had been a never-ending livestream, stopping them from even making a quick stroll to meryton once. no aunts, no officers, no fresh tea could be scored; even the iconic shoe-roses for netherfield were snagged by proxy. even elizabeth might have been testing her chill in weather that totally iced out her plans of getting closer to mr. wickham—and nothing short of a tuesday dance could’ve turned a friday, saturday, sunday, and monday into something bearable for kitty and lydia.

chapter xviii.

ill, elizabeth strolled into the netherfield drawing-room, scanning the squad of red-coat peeps for mr. wickham, since she never even doubted he’d be there. she was 100% sure a chance encounter was on lock, despite any ghostly memories that might’ve otherwise given her the heebie-jeebies. she’d gone all out with her drip, hyped to snatch whatever leftover pieces of his heart were still up for grabs, thinking it’d be an easy win by the end of the night.

but then, out of nowhere, a major sus vibe hit her—like, maybe mr. wickham was being purposely ghosted from the bingleys’ invite list (all for mr. darcy’s pleasure, no less). even though that wasn’t exactly the tea, his absence was confirmed by his boy mr. denny, whom lydia practically cornered. mr. denny spilled, “yo, i honestly doubt his biz would’ve dragged him away right now if he wasn’t lowkey tryna dodge a certain gentleman here,” flashing a knowing grin.

even though lydia missed that extra scoop, elizabeth caught every word. it confirmed that mr. darcy was just as sus for wickham’s vanishing act as her gut had warned. her annoyance with darcy just shot up so fast that she could barely muster any chill civility in response to his later, overly polite inquiries. honestly, giving darcy any more attention was like doing an injustice to wickham. she decided straight-up no convo with him, turning away with such major ill vibes that even mr. bingley’s blind favoritism couldn’t entirely soothe her mood.

but elizabeth wasn’t built to stay salty forever—even if her own night looked toast, the bad vibes didn’t stick for long. after pouring all her feels to charlotte lucas (who she hadn’t caught up with in a week), she quickly switched gears to hype up her cousin’s quirky antics, giving him all the shoutouts he deserved.

the first two dances, however, were an absolute cringe-fest. mr. collins, awkward af and all solemn, kept apologizing for every misstep and tripping over his own feet, dishing out world-class shame and misery that only the worst dance partner could serve. the minute he finally yeeted himself off her dance card, it was pure, unadulterated ecstasy.

next, she teamed up with an officer, catching a breath while chatting about wickham and hearing how he was, like, universally adored. once those dances wrapped, she slid back to charlotte for some chill convo—until mr. darcy suddenly popped up, throwing an unexpected proposition for her hand so outta left field that she accepted on autopilot. he then bailed immediately, leaving her fretting over her own brain-fade; charlotte quickly stepped in with some consolation.

“i bet you’ll find him super lit,” charlotte cooed.

“omg, heaven forbid! that’d be the ultimate fail—finding a dude agreeable when you’re dead set on hating him is the worst vibe. don’t hit me with that,” elizabeth snapped back.

when the dance resumed and darcy slid over to claim her hand, charlotte leaned in whispering, “don’t be a dummy, girl—don’t let your wickham crush make you look extra sus to a guy who’s basically loaded.” elizabeth stayed silent and took her place on the floor, lowkey amazed that she was allowed to stand right across from mr. darcy, and peeped that everyone around was equally shook by the level-up. they chilled in dead silence for quite a bit, and she figured their mute mode would carry through both dances. originally, she planned to keep it that way—until she thought it’d be a savage move to force him to talk. so she dropped a subtle comment about the vibe of the dance. he replied, and then they went mute again. after a few long minutes, she broke the silence a second time, saying:

“mr. darcy, it’s your turn to spill. i schooled the dance, now you gotta drop a comment on how massive this room is or maybe on the number of couples showing off.”

he grinned and said, “bet, whatever you want me to say, i’m down.” 

“aight; that reply will do for now. maybe later i’ll mention that private balls are way more lit than public ones—but for now, let’s just chill in our silence.”

“so, do you always chat like that while dancing?” she teased.

“sometimes. you gotta drop some words, you know—it’d be super odd to sit in total silence for half an hour; but sometimes, conversation should be lowkey arranged so that folks gotta work hard to say as little as possible,” he explained.

“are you just vibing with your own feels right now, or are you also tryna make mine happy?” she shot back.

“both,” elizabeth smirked archly, “‘cause i’ve always clocked that our minds are basically twins—we’re both unsocial and quiet, only spilling our thoughts when we expect to drop a line that blows up the entire room and becomes a legendary clapback for the ages.”

mr. darcy countered, “well, that doesn’t exactly scream your own vibe, tbh. how close it is to mine, i can’t even front. but you totally think it’s a spot-on self-portrait, right?”

“i can’t just rate my own highlight reel,” elizabeth replied with a playful shrug.

he stayed silent, and they kept their quiet mode until, as they were winding down their dance, he asked if she and her sisters don’t often stroll to meryton. she confirmed, then couldn’t resist adding, “when you bumped into us the other day, we were just lowkey making some new bestie goals.”

the effect was instantaneous—a deeper shade of arrogance flashed on his face, but he stayed mum. elizabeth, though mad at herself for being so soft, couldn’t keep going. eventually, darcy broke his silence and said in a tight voice:

“mr. wickham’s got such dope vibes that he can totally make friends; but whether he can keep those friendships is kinda sus.”

“bro, he’s been so unlucky he lost your vibe—and trust me, that loss is something he’s gonna carry for life,” elizabeth shot back, emphasizing every word.

darcy said nothing more and clearly wanted to switch tracks. just then, sir william lucas strolled up, clearly about to glide past them on the dance floor, but spotting mr. darcy, he stopped with an over-the-top bow to compliment his baller moves and incredible partner.

“i’ve been hella stoked, my dude; moves like these are rare gems. it’s clear you play in the big leagues. but i gotta say, your stunning partner only elevates you, and i seriously hope we get more of these epic nights—especially when that major event, my dear miss eliza (glancing slyly at her sister and mr. bingley), goes down. just imagine the flood of congrats that’ll hit then! i’m calling on mr. darcy—but i won’t hold you up from chatting with that enchanting young lady whose bright eyes are lowkey roasting me.”

“like, seriously, moves this lit are unicorn-level rare,” echoed the compliment.

the latter part of sir william’s speech barely registered with darcy; but his subtle diss of his friend hit him hard, and he zeroed in with a very serious glare on mr. bingley and jane, who were twirling together. shaking it off shortly, he turned back to his partner and said, 

“sir william’s pop-up totally made me forget our convo.”

“i seriously doubt we were even chatting. sir william couldn’t have crashed a convo between two complete quiet types. we’ve already tried a couple of topics with zero fire, and i can’t even imagine what’s next,” she replied.

mr. darcy then grinned and asked, “so, what’s your take on books?”

“books? oh no! i’m pretty sure we read totally different stuff—or if we read the same, our feels are nowhere near synced,” she fired back.

“i’m sorry you think that; but if that’s the tea, at least we’ve got endless topics to debate. we can totally compare our different opinions,” he replied.

“nah, i just can’t do book convos in a ballroom; my brain’s always on a different wavelength,” she insisted.

“are you always so caught up in the vibe at these events?” he prodded with a curious look.

“yes, always,” she answered reflexively, though her mind was already drifting off, until—out of nowhere—she blurted, “i remember you once said, mr. darcy, that you hardly ever forgive—that once you’re salty, there’s no chill. i bet you’re super cautious about sparking that drama, right?”

“i am,” he replied firmly.

“and you never let yourself get blinded by prejudice?” she challenged.

“i hope not,” he said.

“it’s extra crucial for those who never change their mind to judge things right at first,” she observed.

“may i ask, what’s the point of all these questions?” mr. darcy inquired.

“just trying to sketch your vibe, figure out your character,” she replied, trying to shake off her overly serious tone.

“and how’s that workin’ out for you?” he pressed.

she shook her head. “i’m totally not nailing it—I keep hearing all these wild, conflicting stories about you that leave me completely puzzled.”

“i can totally see how the tea about me can vary like crazy; and honestly, miss bennet, i’d prefer if you didn’t try to sketch my character right now, ‘cause that performance wouldn’t do either of us any favors,” he said gravely.

“but if i don’t lock in your vibe now, i might never get a second shot,” she shot back.

“i’m not gonna kill any of your fun,” he replied coolly.

after that, they clammed up as they hit their next dance, parting in an awkward silence with both feeling a bit off—though not equally so; because in mr. darcy’s chest, there was still a pretty strong spark for her that soon got him to forgive her, channeling his rage onto someone else instead.

not long after they split, miss bingley slid over with a look of regal disdain and accosted her, “so, miss eliza, word on the street is that you’re totally crushing on george wickham? your sis has been blowing up my dms about him, asking a thousand deets; and apparently, the dude forgot to mention in his other texts that he’s the son of old wickham, mr. darcy’s late steward. just a tip from a friend—don’t buy all his stories. like, mr. darcy being shady with him is totally bogus; in fact, mr. darcy’s always been mad kind to him, even though george wickham treated mr. darcy like total trash. i don’t have every juicy detail, but trust me, mr. darcy ain’t got no fault here; he literally can’t stand anyone dropping wickham’s name; and even though my brother figured he had to include him in the officers’ invite, he was beyond relieved when the dude got benched. honestly, the kid even showing up in the country is such an insolent flex, and i really wonder how he had the balls to do it. i feel for you, miss eliza, finding out your fave’s caught in this shady drama—but seriously, given his low-key background, you shouldn’t expect anything top tier.”

“so you’re saying his guilt and his pedigree are basically the same thing?” elizabeth snapped back, furious. “i heard you claim he’s nothing more than mr. darcy’s steward’s kid—and trust, he told me that himself!”

“i beg your pardon,” replied miss bingley with a sneer as she spun away. “excuse my interference; it was meant kindly.”

muttering under her breath, elizabeth thought, “insolent girl. you’re way off if you expect to sway me with such a weak-ass diss. i only see your own cluelessness and mr. darcy’s simmering malice.”

she then bounced over to her eldest sister, who had been busy snooping out the latest on mr. bingley. jane greeted her with such a sweet, confident glow that made it clear she was totally vibing with the evening’s deets. elizabeth instantly read her vibe; in that moment, her worries about wickham and all the haters completely melted away in the bright hope that jane was on the fast track to happiness.

“i need the scoop—what’s the tea on mr. wickham?” she beamed. “although, if you were too busy having fun to remember, don’t worry, i gotchu with forgiveness.”

“no, i haven’t forgotten him,” jane replied softly, “but i’ve got nada solid to spill. mr. bingley doesn’t know his full history and is clueless about what really ticked off mr. darcy; however, he vouches for his friend’s good vibes, integrity, and honor—and he’s totally convinced that mr. wickham didn’t deserve the major spotlight from mr. darcy like he got. i’m sorry to say, but according to both his story and his sister’s, mr. wickham is nowhere near a respectable dude. he’s been hella imprudent and, as a result, lost mr. darcy’s respect big time.”

“mr. bingley hasn’t even met mr. wickham properly,” elizabeth noted.

“no; he only laid eyes on him the other morning in meryton,” jane confirmed.

“so that’s just what mr. darcy fed him?” elizabeth prodded. “i’m good with that—but what does he say about his current status?”

“he doesn’t really remember all the deets, even though mr. darcy’s repeated them like a broken record; he believes it was all done on a conditional vibe only,” jane explained.

“i have zero doubts about mr. bingley’s sincerity,” elizabeth said warmly, “but forgive me for not buying into assurances alone. mr. bingley’s defense of his friend was epic, yet since he’s missing key parts of the story—having heard the rest straight from the source—I’m still gonna stick with my original vibe on both of them.”

then, switching the convo to something way more uplifting, elizabeth listened with pure delight to jane’s modest yet happy hopes about mr. bingley’s regard, doing everything in her power to boost her sister’s confidence.

when mr. bingley himself joined the scene, elizabeth dipped over to miss lucas; before she could even spill the tea about how dope her last dance partner was, mr. collins came barreling up, practically bursting with excitement, announcing, “yo, i just found out—by a total fluke—that there’s a near relative of my patroness in this room right now! i literally overheard the gentleman himself dropping the names of his cousin, miss de bourgh, and her mom, lady catherine, to the young lady running the show here. how wild is that? who would’ve thought i’d be bumping into—maybe—a nephew of lady catherine de bourgh at this very party! i’m super grateful this gem of info came out in time for me to pay my respects, which i’m about to do, and i hope he forgives me for not doing it sooner. my complete cluelessness about the connection totally warrants an apology.”

“you ain’t gonna introduce yourself to mr. darcy, are you?” someone piped up.

“indeed i am. i’ll be begging his pardon for not doing it sooner. i reckon he’s lady catherine’s nephew, and i’m totally gonna let him know that her ladyship was looking on point last night,” mr. collins declared.

elizabeth tried hard to dissuade him from going full send on that plan, warning, “dude, mr. darcy will for sure see you sliding in without a proper intro as you being extra, not as a compliment to your aunt. there’s really no need for either of you to make a big deal—and if any recognition is due, it should come from mr. darcy himself, since he’s the big boss here.” but mr. collins, totally on his own vibe, just kept nodding along. and when she finally went silent, he clapped back like—

mr. collins was all in his feels, not even caring what she said, and when she finally shut it down, he clapped back like—

my dear miss elizabeth, i high-key stan your epic judgment on all life matters, but fr, let me spill: there’s a massive diff between the basic protocols of the regular squad and the ultra-formal vibes of the clergy; like, let me just say i legit see the clerical gig as having boss-level clout equal to the top tier in the kingdom—provided they keep it humble and chill, no cap. so, let me follow the dictates of my inner meme-conscience on this one, which is basically telling me to do what’s my duty. sorry if i skipped on soaking up your advice (which, btw, will always be my constant guide on everything else), but for this sitch, i’m convinced my edumacation and constant study make me way more clued-up on what’s right than a young lady like yourself.

and with a low-key bow, he dipped, leaving her to low-key watch mr. darcy get roasted by his advances—she was totally living for his reaction, which was as clear as day, major shock-mode. then, her cousin kicked off his spiel with a solemn bow, and even though she couldn’t catch every word, she was vibing that his lip moves were dropping signals like “apology,” “hunsford,” and “lady catherine de bourgh.” tbh, it got her hella heated to see him put himself out like that in front of such a dude.

mr. darcy was low-key throwing unrestrained wonder his way; and when mr. collins finally let him speak, he shot back with an air of distant, formal civility. but mr. collins wasn’t even phased by that, and mr. darcy’s shade level only cranked up during his second spiel; and when he wrapped it up, all he did was throw a slight bow and dip—then mr. collins bounced back to elizabeth.

“i have no reason, i assure you,” he went, “to be dissatisfied with my reception. mr. darcy was totally vibing with the attention. he hit me back with the utmost civility, even dropping the compliment that he’s so convinced of lady catherine’s discernment that she’d never ever hand out a favor unworthily. i mean, that’s a seriously handsome flex. overall, i’m super pleased with him.”

with her own vibe done, elizabeth shifted all her attention to her sister and mr. bingley; and the lit stream of agreeable thoughts she had was almost as hype as jane’s. she totally pictured jane locked into that house, living in all the epic bliss that a marriage built on true affection can serve up; and she even felt she could, under the circumstances, try to vibe with bingley’s two sisters. 

she peeped that her mom’s thoughts were on the same wavelength, so she planned to ghost her to avoid overhearing too much tea. when they sat down to supper, elizabeth thought it was a major sus move that they were forced together; and she got seriously salty when she saw her mom chatting up lady lucas, full send, dishing exclusively on how jane was about to get hitched to mr. bingley any minute now. this topic was on fire, and mrs. bennet was in full hype mode, listing off the match’s perks like it was the best drop ever—mr. bingley being a charming young buck, mad rich, and living just three miles away were the top flexes; then she was like, it’s super comforting how bingley’s sisters are low-key obsessed with jane, meaning they’d be itching for the hookup as much as jane might be.

plus, it was a massive win for her younger daughters, since jane’s epic marriage would totally unlock doors to other rich dudes; and, low-key, it was so on point at her stage of life to be able to offload her single daughters under jane’s care, so she wasn’t forced into any extra social drama. gotta roll with the etiquette, even if mrs. bennet herself would never chill at home for a sec. she wrapped it up by wishing lady lucas the same level of fortune real soon—even though, deep down, she was totally snickering, knowing there was zero chance of that ever happening.

elizabeth tried so hard to slow down her mom’s rapid-fire chatter or get her to drop the hype in a softer tone; but, oh no, she was super vexed to realize that mr. darcy—sitting right across—was definitely catching all the tea. her mom just clapped back at her for being all nonsensical.

“what’s mr. darcy to me, pray, that i gotta be shook of him? i’m sure we owe him no special civility like having to keep our mouths shut on anything he might not vibe with.”

“for real, madam, lower your volume. what’s in it for you to be offending mr. darcy? you’re never gonna win over his squad by doing that.”

no matter what she said, it didn’t even make a diff; her mom kept droppin’ her views in the same clear AF tone. elizabeth blushed nonstop, drowning in shame and pure vexation. she couldn’t help but sneak glances at mr. darcy—even though every look confirmed her deepest fears; even when he wasn’t always eyeing her mom, she was sure his focus was locked on her. his whole expression slowly shifted from full-on indignation to an even, solid gravity.

at length, however, mrs. bennet ran outta steam; and lady lucas, who’d been yawning at the overplayed delights she knew she’d never get to share, got left with nothing but cold ham and chicken. elizabeth started to bounce back from her mood, but the calm didn’t last long; after supper, someone dropped the “let’s sing” plan, and she cringed hardcore when mary—after barely any prodding—got ready to serve the company with her performance. elizabeth shot so many loaded looks and silent pleas to stop mary’s extra flex, but, no cap, mary just didn’t get the hint—she was all about the chance to perform, and she kicked off her song.

elizabeth’s eyes were stuck on mary, and every moment brought major pain; she watched her shuffle through each lame stanza with a tension that was seriously not worth it—and then, after a half-minute pause and a side of table thanks with a hint that maybe mary could be persuaded to hit them with another round, mary jumped right back in with another song. mary’s vocal game was totally off—her voice was super weak and her style way too affected. elizabeth was in straight-up agony. she glanced over at jane to see if she was handling the cringe, but jane was coolly chatting with bingley. elizabeth then peeped bingley’s two sisters, catching them throwing sarcastic signals at one another and at darcy, who, no matter what, stayed ice-cold and unreadable. she looked over at her dad, silently pleading for him to step in before mary went on a never-ending karaoke binge. he totally caught the drift, and when mary wrapped her second song, he announced aloud, 

“that will do extremely well, child. you have delighted us long enough. let the other young ladies have time to exhibit.”

mary, even though she pretended not to peep a word, was clearly shaken; and elizabeth, feeling super sorry for her and her dad’s mild clap back, worried that her anxious vibes didn’t fix a thing. soon enough, the rest of the party shifted their attention.

“if i,” mr. collins piped up, “had the vocal swag to sing, i’d be hella stoked to drop a tune for the crew; because, like, music is a totally innocent chill-out, perfectly on-brand for a clergyman’s gig. don’t get me wrong, i ain’t saying we should be wasting all our time on it—there’s mad other responsibilities. a parish rector’s got loads on his plate. first off, he’s gotta seal a lit deal on tithes that fills his wallet without offending his boss; he writes his own sermons; and the leftover time should still cover his parish duties and pimping his crib to be as comfy as possible. plus, i seriously think it’s crucial for him to keep it 100 with everyone—especially those he owes his glow-up to. i can’t let that slide; i wouldn’t even think well of a dude who skipped a chance to show proper respect to anyone in the fam.” 

with a dramatic bow to mr. darcy, he wrapped up his speech, blasting his words so loud that half the room caught every drop. many were staring—many grinned; but none looked more entertained than mr. bennet himself, while his wife was busy seriously commending mr. collins for speaking so sensibly, even whispering to lady lucas that he was a remarkably clever and genuinely good kind of young buck.

to elizabeth, it all seemed like if her fam had agreed to flex their extra selves all night, they couldn’t have nailed their parts with more spirit or success; and she was pretty stoked for bingley and her sis that some of their wild display managed to fly under his radar, and that his feels weren’t the type to be majorly wrecked by all the absurdity he witnessed. still, the fact that his two sisters and mr. darcy got a chance to roast her crew was extra ugly; she couldn’t even decide if his silent savage shade or the cheeky smirks of the ladies were more un-endurable.

the rest of the evening was a low-key bore for her. mr. collins kept on teasing her, sticking by her side like a lost puppy; and though he couldn’t force her to dance with him again, he kinda blocked her from dancing with anyone else. no matter how many times she begged him to bounce and hang with someone else—even offering to hook him up with any young lady in the room—he was all, as far as dancing goes, totally indifferent; his main hustle was to win her over with his “delicate” attentions, so he planned on staying glued to her all night. there was zero debate. she owed her biggest relief to her friend miss lucas, who often joined their duo and good-naturedly took over mr. collins’s endless chatter.

at least she didn’t have to deal with mr. darcy’s extra attention anymore: even though he was always low-key in her personal space, he never came close enough to actually say anything. she figured it was probably because of her not-so-subtle shade on mr. wickham, and that thought made her smile inside.

the longbourn crew was the last to bounce; and thanks to a slick move by mrs. bennet, they had to wait for their ride a full quarter-hour after everyone else dipped—giving the fam extra time to watch some of them get harshly wished away by other relatives. mrs. hurst and her sis barely opened their mouths except to moan about being straight-up exhausted, clearly dying to have the house all to themselves. they shot down every attempt by mrs. bennet to spark a convo, and in doing so, cast a major chill over the whole squad—a mood that was barely lifted by mr. collins’s endless rants, where he kept hyping mr. bingley and his sisters on how elegant their entertainment was, and on the hospitality and straight-up politeness they served their guests. darcy stayed mute throughout. mr. bennet, equally chill, was just soaking in the scene. mr. bingley and jane hung together a bit apart from the rest, chatting only between themselves. elizabeth kept as silent as mrs. hurst or miss bingley, and even lydia was too wiped out to do more than drop an occasional “lord, how tired i am!” with a massive yawn.

when they finally rose to dip, mrs. bennet was over-the-top civil, practically begging to see the whole fam back at longbourn soon; and she hit up mr. bingley extra hard, assuring him that any family dinner he crashed with them would be pure joy—no elaborate invite needed. mr. bingley was all about that, and he quickly agreed to hit her up at the earliest chance after his quick london trip the next day.

mrs. bennet was hella satisfied; she bounced from the house totally convinced that, after all the normie prep for settlements, new carriages, and wedding drip, she’d def see her daughter all set up at netherfield in three or four months. she was equally dead sure about landing another daughter to mr. collins, with a big, if not as lit, dose of pleasure. elizabeth was the fam’s least fav; and even though the dude and the hookup were decent enough, they were totally eclipsed by mr. bingley and netherfield.

“to assure you in the most animated language.”

chapter xix.

the next day, the scene at longbourn got a whole new level. mr. collins kicked off his declaration, full formal mode. deciding not to waste a sec—since his time off was only until the coming saturday—and with zero shy feels to cramp his style, he went about it in a totally ordered fashion, hitting all the cues he thought were part of the proper business. spotting mrs. bennet, elizabeth, and one of the younger girls chillin’ together right after breakfast, he addressed mrs. bennet with these words,—

“may i hope, madam, that you’re as hyped about your bomb daughter elizabeth as i am, when i solicit the honour of a private audience with her this morning?”

before elizabeth could even drop anything but a surprised blush, mrs. bennet instantly clapped back,—

“oh dear! yes, certainly. i am sure lizzy will be very happy—i am sure she can have no objection. come, kitty, i want you upstairs.”

as mrs. bennet gathered her things and dipped, elizabeth called out—

“dear ma’am, don’t dip. i beg you, please don’t go. mr. collins must excuse me—he’s gonna say stuff out loud that no one should miss. i’m bouncing out too.”

“nah, nah, nonsense, lizzy. i need you to stay right where you are.” and seeing that elizabeth, all vexed and embarrassed, was about to yeet, mrs. bennet added, “lizzy, i insist you stick around and hear mr. collins.”

elizabeth wasn’t about to argue with that order; after a quick sec of thinking, realizing it was best to wrap this up mad quickly and quietly, she sat back down and kept herself busy to hide the mix of distress and weird amusement inside her. mrs. bennet and kitty bounced, and as soon as they were gone, mr. collins began,—

“believe me, my dear miss elizabeth, your modesty—far from being a drag—actually levels up all your other epic traits. honestly, you’d be less of a vibe in my eyes if it weren’t for that little hesitance; but let me assure you, i have your respected mother’s full permission for this address. you can’t even doubt what i’m about to say, no matter if your natural delicacy makes you wanna hold back; my attentions have been way too on deck to miss. almost as soon as i stepped into the house, i singled you out as the companion for my future life. but before i get totally swept away by my feels on this subject, it might be smart for me to drop my reasons for marrying—and, moreover, for rolling into hertfordshire with the mission of selecting a wife, as i totally did.”

the thought of mr. collins, all stiff and proper, getting completely swept up in his own feels had elizabeth literally on the edge of laughing so hard that she couldn’t even keep quiet during his brief pause, and he pushed on,—

“my reasons for marrying are, first, that i believe it’s the right move for every clergyman in chill circumstances (like, say, me) to set the ultimate example of matrimony in his parish; secondly, i’m convinced it’s gonna majorly boost my happiness; and thirdly—which i probably should’ve mentioned sooner—that it’s based on the specific advice and rec from the super noble lady i have the honour of calling patroness. twice, she’s slid me her opinion (totally unasked for, btw!) on this subject; and it was just the saturday night before i dipped from hunsford—while we were chilling at quadrille near our pools and mrs. jenkinson was arranging miss de bourgh’s footstool—that she said, ‘mr. collins, you must marry. a clergyman like you is meant to marry. choose properly, choose a gentlewoman for my sake and for your own; let her be active and useful, not all snobby but someone who can stretch a small income like a pro. that’s my advice. find a woman like that ASAP, bring her to hunsford, and i will visit her.’ now, let me add, my fair cousin, i don’t even consider lady catherine de bourgh’s notice and kindness as one of the least advantages i can offer. her manners are next level; and i reckon your wit and vivacity would totally be on her level too—especially if you mix it with the proper silence and respect her rank demands. so that’s my general vibe on marriage; now, why did i zero in on longbourn instead of my own 'hood, where i’m sure there are plenty of cool young ladies? well, the fact is, since i’m set to inherit this estate after your dear father’s eventual exit (though he might stick around for ages), i couldn’t even vibe with a wife choice from anywhere else among his daughters—so that the hit when that sad moment comes is as minimal as possible—which, as i said, might be years away. that’s been my motive, my fair cousin, and i’m pretty sure it won’t lower my rep with you. and now, nothing’s left for me but to tell you, in the most extra language ever, about how wild my affection is. i’m totally indifferent to fortune, and i won’t be demanding any flashy dowry from your father, since i know that’s not even on the table; and that one thousand pounds at 4 per cents, which won’t hit your account until after your mother’s gone, is basically all you’ll ever score. on that note, i’m gonna keep it 100 silent—and you can bet no cheap, ungenerous clapback will ever drop from my lips when we get married.”

at that point, it was absolutely necessary to cut him off.

“you are too hasty, sir,” she snapped, “you forget that i haven’t even given my answer. let me handle this without any more delay. thanks for the sweet compliment, but i’m super aware of the honor in your proposal—and i’m dead serious when i say, i must decline.”

“i’m not here to learn,” mr. collins replied, waving his hand all formal-like, “that it’s totally common for young ladies to reject the advances of the guy they secretly wanna accept when he first comes at them; and that sometimes that refusal gets repeated a second or even a third time. so, i’m not even discouraged by what you just dropped, and i’m totally hopeful i can drag you to the altar before long.”

“for real, sir,” elizabeth shot back, “your hope is seriously extra after my declaration. i promise you, i’m not one of those young ladies (if they even exist) who’d risk their own happiness by waiting to be asked again. i’m completely dead serious about my no. you could never make me happy, and i’m convinced i’m literally the last woman on earth who could do that for you. nah, if your friend lady catherine ever got a load of me, i’m sure she’d find me totally unqualified for the role.”

“were it 100 that lady catherine would be on that vibe,” said mr. collins, hella serious—“but i can’t even picture her ladyship throwing mad shade at you. and you can bet, when i get the honor of catching her again, imma spill all the tea on your lowkey epic modesty, your money-savvy flex, and every other fire quality you’ve got.”

“fr fr, mr. collins, i’m literally over the need for extra props. let me vibe with my own feels and trust my own words, ok? i’m wishing you mega happiness and fat stacks, but by ghosting your hand, i’m doing everything in my power to keep you from rockin’ any other vibe. in dropping your proposal, you’ve clearly satisfied your feelings about my fam, so go ahead and claim the longbourn estate whenever it drops—no guilt, no cap. consider this whole sitch officially iced.”

and rising as she spoke, she would have yeeted out of the room, had not mr. collins popped off with—

“when i get the honor of chatting with you next on this topic, i’ll be hoping for a way more lit yes than what you just dropped; not that i’m throwing shade now, but i totally get that it’s like the standard for your squad to bounce on a first try. maybe, even now, you dropped a hint to boost my suit in line with that delicate, extra female finesse.”

“for real, mr. collins,” cried elizabeth, with a bit of heat, “you got me hella confused. if what i laid down before comes off as encouragement, then i honestly don’t know how to serve a refusal that’ll convince you it’s a hard no.”

“allow me to flex a little, my dear cousin, by thinking that your dodge of my advances is just lip service. my reasons are pretty simple: it’s clear that my hand is totally on fleek for your acceptance, and the setup i’m offering is a next-level glow-up. my life status, my close ties with the de bourgh crew, and my link with your fam are major wins on my end; and you should keep in mind that even with your mad attractive vibes, there’s no guarantee another marriage offer will ever slide your way. your portion is sadly so small that it might totally cancel out your epic looks and charming persona. so, i gotta assume you’re not really ghosting me but just trying to up my love game by keeping me in suspense—the classic move of elegant ladies.”

“look, sir, i gotta assure you: i’m not about that boujee elegance that torments a decent dude. i’d much rather catch the compliment of being seen as straight-up sincere. thanks a million for the honor of your proposals, but accepting them is, like, an absolute no-go. my feels are screaming ‘nah’ on every level. can i be crystal clear? don’t see me now as some high-key elegant babe out to mess with you, but as a rational human dropping truth straight from the heart.”

“yo, you’re consistently lit!” he exclaimed, dripping awkward gallantry; “and i’m convinced that once your awesome rents give the green light, my proposal is gonna be totally on point.”

elizabeth clammed up at such wild self-deception and straight-up dipped out in silence; she was deadass determined that if he kept reading her constant nos as flattering hype, she’d hit up her dad—with a final, decisive clap-back he couldn’t mistake for any frilly coquetry.

chapter xx.

r. collins didn’t get much time to revel in his so-called love win; because mrs. bennet, who’d been chillin’ in the foyer waiting for the convo to wrap, peeped elizabeth bolt through the door and flex towards the stairs. without skipping a beat, she bounced into the breakfast room, hyping up both him and herself about the bright prospect of their imminent hookup. mr. collins soaked up and threw back these props with equal flair, then dished out every deet of their chat, totally convinced that her steadfast refusal was just a product of her bashful modesty and genuine delicate vibes.

but yo, this tea had mrs. bennet shook: she would’ve loved to ride the wave that her daughter was lowkey encouraging him by saying no, but she just couldn’t wrap her head around it—and she couldn’t help but spill.

“but believe you me, mr. collins,” she added, “lizzy is gonna be put in her place. i’m gonna sit her down and serve the real talk myself. she’s one hella stubborn, kinda basic, and doesn’t even know what’s best for her—i’ll make sure she gets it.”

“sorry to butt in, madam,” cried mr. collins, “but if she’s really that stubborn and clueless, i’m not sure she’d be the ideal wifey for a dude in my situation, who’s all about chasing that marital happy vibe. so if she keeps straight-up saying no, maybe it’s better not to force a yes—because a temper like hers ain’t gonna level up my happiness.”

“sir, you got it twisted,” snapped mrs. bennet, clearly alarmed. “lizzy’s only headstrong on marriage stuff. everywhere else, she’s one of the nicest girls ever. i’m gonna bounce over straight to mr. bennet, and i’m sure we’ll sort this out with her in no time.”

not giving him a chance to clap back, she sprinted straight to her husband, calling out as she rolled into the library—

“oh, mr. bennet, you’re needed like, right now; we’re all in a frenzy. you’ve gotta come and force lizzy to marry mr. collins, because she swore she’d never have him—and if you don’t move fast, he’ll end up flipping and ghosting her for good.”

mr. bennet just peeped up from his book when she slid in, locking eyes with a calm, unimpressed stare that wasn’t even fazed by her rant.

“i don’t get what you’re on about,” he said once she finished. “what’s your tea?”

“it’s about mr. collins and lizzy. lizzy is all like ‘i ain’t down for mr. collins,’ and mr. collins is over here saying he ain’t down for lizzy either.”

“so what am i supposed to do with this mess? this looks like a total lost cause.”

“talk to lizzy yourself. tell her, no cap, you insist she’s gotta marry him.”

“have her come in—she’s about to hear my full opinion.”

mrs. bennet rang the bell, and miss elizabeth was summoned to the library.

“come here, kid,” hollered her father as she appeared. “i summoned you for some major business. word is mr. collins slid a marriage offer your way. is that on point?”

elizabeth confirmed, “it is, sir.”

“aight—so you straight-up rejected it?”

“i did, sir.”

“fine. now, here’s the tea: your mother is dead set on you taking that offer. isn’t that right, mrs. bennet?”

“yes, or else i’ll never see her again.”

“here’s your sad choice, elizabeth: from now on, you’ll be a stranger to one of your parents. your mom will ghost you forever if you don’t marry mr. collins, and i promise, i’ll vanish from your life if you stay firm.”

elizabeth couldn’t help but smirk at that wild twist, but mrs. bennet—who’d convinced herself that her husband was vibing with her plan—was beyond disappointed.

“what do you mean, mr. bennet, by talking like that? you promised me you’d force her to marry him.”

“my dear,” replied her husband, “i’ve got two tiny favors to ask. first, let me use my own brain on this matter; and second, hand over my room. i’d be so stoked to have the library all to myself, like, asap.”

still, mrs. bennet, even if she was lowkey bummed about her husband, didn’t drop the case. she kept chatting with elizabeth on loop—coaxing one minute, threatening the next. she even tried to rope in jane to back her up, but jane, ever so mild, refused to get involved; and elizabeth, sometimes dead serious and sometimes playfully lit, fired back at every dig. though her vibe varied, her determination was rock solid.

meanwhile, mr. collins retreated into a solo think session about all that went down. he was so full of his own drip that he couldn’t even fathom why his cousin would bounce on him; and even if his pride took a hit, he wasn’t bothered otherwise. his crush on her was all in his head, and the fact that she might actually deserve her mother’s shade stopped him from feeling any real regret.

amidst all the fam chaos, charlotte lucas rolled in to spend the day with them. she got greeted in the foyer by lydia, who, sprinting over, half-whispered, “i’m so glad you showed up, cuz it’s a total party here! guess what went down this morning? mr. collins made a marriage offer to lizzy, and she straight-up ghosted him.”

they entered the breakfast room.

charlotte barely had time to drop a response before kitty bounced in with the same tea; and as soon as they rolled into the breakfast room, where mrs. bennet was chillin’ solo, she immediately kicked off on the subject—begging miss lucas for some serious sympathy and pleading with her to convince her friend lizzy to cave in to the fam’s wishes. “please, my dear miss lucas,” she added in a seriously sad tone, “because literally no one’s on my side, no one’s vibing with me; i’m getting totally used, and my poor nerves are taking savage hits.”

charlotte was about to reply when jane and elizabeth breezed in.

“ay, there she comes,” continued mrs. bennet, “looking as chill as if she ain’t got a care in the world—like she couldn’t care less about us even if we were in york—so long as she gets her own way. but listen up, miss lizzy, if you keep snubbing every marriage offer like this, you’re never gonna snag a husband—and i literally don’t know who’ll support you when your dad’s gone. i won’t be able to keep you; so consider this your final warn. i told you in the library that i’d never speak to you again, and i’ll be as true to that as it gets. i get zero pleasure from chatting with unfilial kids. not that i even love talking to anyone—people who suffer from my nerve-wracking drama usually aren’t big on chatter. no one can even imagine what i go through! but that’s just how it always is—those who keep their pain hidden never get any pity.”

her daughters sat in silence, knowing that trying to reason with or soothe her would only heat her up more. she kept spilling the tea non-stop until mr. collins strutted in with a grander-than-usual air, and spotting him, she told the girls—

“now, i seriously insist that all of you zip your lips and let mr. collins and i have our own little convo.”

elizabeth quietly dipped out of the room, with jane and kitty trailing behind, but lydia stayed put, determined to catch every deet; and charlotte, first detained by mr. collins’ extra polite vibes—he was checking up on her and her whole fam like a nosy app—and then just lowkey curious, ended up strolling to the window and acting like she didn’t hear a thing. in a sad, doleful tone, mrs. bennet finally kicked off the convo:

“oh, mr. collins!”

“my dear madam,” replied he, “let’s just agree to keep this whole subject on mute forever. far be it from me,” he continued in a tone that practically dripped displeasure, “to be bitter about your daughter’s behavior. sometimes, you just gotta accept inevitable evils—especially for a young man as lucky as i am with my early glow-up; and, honestly, i’m pretty resigned to it. maybe even more so since i kinda doubt my own happiness would be 100 if my cute cousin had slid her hand in mine; because i’ve noticed that resignation never hits as perfectly as when the blessing denied kind of loses its shine. i hope you won’t see me as disrespecting your fam, my dear madam, by pulling my proposal and not waiting for you and mr. bennet to flex your authority on my behalf. my move might seem off for accepting my dismissal from your daughter’s lips instead of yours directly—but hey, we all mess up sometimes. i truly meant well through the whole affair. my goal was to lock in an amicable partner for myself, keeping your entire fam’s advantage in mind; and if my vibe came off as sketchy at all, i here beg your pardon.”

chapter xxi.

the saga of mr. collins’ proposal was nearly wrapped up, and elizabeth was stuck with all the awkward feels and the occasional venomous shade from her mom. as for mr. collins himself, his emotions were shown not by being shy or depressed, but through a stiff, resentful silence. he barely dropped a word to her; and the extra attention he had been so hyped about ended up getting redirected all day to miss lucas, whose chill listening skills were a welcome break for everyone—especially for her friend.

the next day didn’t ease mrs. bennet’s bad vibes or cranky mood. mr. collins was still riding that wave of angry pride. elizabeth had hoped his sulk might cut his stay short, but nah—he was set to dip on saturday, and he was sticking around like totally.

after breakfast, the girls bounced over to meryton to check if mr. wickham had reappeared, all while mourning his ghosting from the netherfield ball. he caught up with them as they rolled into town, tagging along to their aunt’s spot, where everyone dished out all the regret, frustration, and extra drama over his absence. but elizabeth admitted that his vanishing act was totally self-imposed.

“i figured,” he said, “as the time neared, that i had better avoid mr. darcy; being stuck in the same room, at the same party with him for hours on end would be way more than i could handle, and would probably spark some seriously cringe scenes not just for me.”

she totally approved of his self-control; and they had plenty of time to chat it up and trade mutual props, as mr. wickham and another officer strolled back with them to longbourn—with mr. wickham giving her extra attention along the way. having him along was a double win: she soaked up all the flattering vibes, and it was the perfect chance to introduce him to her rents.

soon after their return, a letter was dropped to miss bennet from netherfield, and it got opened immediately. the envelope had this fancy, little hot-pressed paper decked out in a lady’s elegant, flowing script; and elizabeth peeped how her sister’s face did a total remix as she read it, zoning in on certain lines like they were the hottest meme.

jane snapped back together soon after; stashing the letter away, she tried to jump in with her usual sunny vibe during the convo—but elizabeth was so anxious about the tea that even mr. wickham couldn’t grab her attention. and as soon as he and his buddy bounced, jane shot her a look that said, “come upstairs with me.” once they hit their room, jane pulled out the letter and was like, “this one’s from caroline bingley: what it says has me totally shook. the whole squad already ghosted netherfield and is heading straight to town—with zero plans to come back. wait till you hear what she spills.”

she then read the first sentence out loud, which basically dropped the deets that they’d just decided to follow their brother to town and chow down that very day on grosvenor street at mr. hurst’s crib. the next part went like this:—

“i do not pretend to miss anything i leave behind in hertfordshire except your company, my dearest friend; but let’s hope that in the near future, we can get back to that dope hangout vibe we once knew—and in the meantime, we can ease the pain of separation with mad frequent and uncensored chats. i’m counting on you for that.”

to these all-out high-flown vibes, elizabeth listened with nothing but distrust; and even though she was shook by how sudden they’d bounced, she couldn’t really be mad: it wasn’t like their ghosting netherfield would keep mr. bingley from being there; and as for missing their squad’s vibe, she figured jane would soon stop caring about all that epic past hangout energy.

“it’s totally unlucky,” she said after a brief pause, “that you don’t get to see your squad before they dip out of the country. but can we at least hope that the future glow-up miss bingley is hyped for shows up way sooner than she thinks, and that the lit hangouts you all had as friends get even more fire when you roll as sisters? mr. bingley isn’t gonna be stuck in london just because of them.”

“caroline is dead set that none of the squad will come back to hertfordshire this winter. imma read it to you.”

“when my brother bounced yesterday, he thought his london biz would wrap up in like three or four days; but since we’re all certain that can’t be, and we’re convinced that when charles hits town he won’t be in any hurry to dip again, we decided to follow him there so he doesn’t end up wasting his free time in a lame hotel. a bunch of my crew is already there for the winter: i wish i could hear that you, my dearest friend, were planning to jump in on that crowd, but i’m totally despairing on that front. i sincerely hope your christmas in hertfordshire is packed with all the lit vibes the season brings, and that you get so many beaux you barely even feel the loss of the three we’re leaving you without.”

“it’s clear from this,” added jane, “that he’s not coming back this winter.”

“it’s only clear that miss bingley doesn’t care if he does.” 

[copyright 1894 by george allen.]

yo, why you think so? lowkey it's all his own vibe—he’s the boss of his own life, no cap. but fr, you ain’t got the full deets. imma read you the part that hits me like a brutal notification drop. i’m not holding back a single emoji:  
‘mr. darcy is literally hyped to see his sis; and tbh, we’re almost as fired up to hang with her again. i seriously don’t think georgiana darcy even comes close when it comes to the perfect blend of beauty, elegance, and epic skills; plus, the feels she’s sending to louisa and me just level up into something even more extra—like the crazy hope that one day she might slide into our fam as our sis. i’m not even sure if i ever dropped my feels on this tea before, but i ain’t about to dip out of the country without spillin’ it, and trust, you won’t think it’s bogus. my bro already stan’s her hardcore; soon he’s gonna score mad chances to chill with her up close; and all her crew is vibing for that hookup just as hard as his own. and real talk, a sis’s bias ain’t tripping me up when i call charles the ultimate heart-stealer. with all these fire factors backing an attachment and zero blockers in the way, am i totally trippin’, my dearest jane, for clinging to the hope that this epic event might secure the happiness of so many?’  

what you think about that, my dear lizzy?  
   
said jane as she dropped the final line, “isn’t it crystal clear? doesn’t it straight-up say that caroline ain’t expectin’ or wishing me to be her sis; that she’s 100% convinced her bro is straight-up indifferent; and that if she peeps the tea on my feels for him, she’s lowkey tryna warn me (and i mean in the nicest way, fr) to stay woke. can there even be another take on it?”  

“yeah, there can—mine’s a whole other vibe. you ready to hear it?”  

“most willingly.”  

“i’ll give you the tl;dr: miss bingley peeps that her bro is totally in love with you and is all about marrying miss darcy. she tails him to town, hopin’ to keep him glued there, and then straight-up tells you that he ain’t feelin’ your vibe.”  

(jane just shook her head like, “nah fam.”)  

“indeed, jane, you oughta believe me. no one who’s ever seen you two together could even doubt his major crush; and miss bingley, fr, she ain’t that clueless. like, if she caught even half as many feels from mr. darcy for herself, she’d have been ordering her wedding drip already. but here’s the real tea: we’re just not rich or extra enough for them; and she’s hella hyped to snag miss darcy for her bro, thinking that once one hookup is in the books, sliding into a second will be way easier—lowkey some next-level scheming. and seriously, my dearest jane, don’t go thinking that just ’cause miss bingley hollers about her bro clearly vibin’ with miss darcy, that he suddenly dims his shine on you since tuesday; or that she can flip his feels so hard that he’s all in on her friend instead of you.”  

“if we were on the same wavelength about miss bingley,” replied jane, “then your story might actually set me at ease. but i gotta be real—the foundation is straight-up bogus. caroline’s too pureness personified to be willy-nilly lying; so all i can hope is that she’s lowkey fooling herself too.”  

“facts. you couldn’t have dropped a happier idea even if you tried, since you won’t get your chill from my tea anyway—so just consider her totally duped, by all means. you already did your duty to her, so stop fretting.”  

“but, my dear sister, can i really be happy, even if everything looks lit, with a dude whose sisters and crew are all tryna cop him instead?”  

“you gotta decide for yourself,” said elizabeth, “and if, after some deep thought, you figure that the struggle of clapping back at his two sis drama outweighs the joy of being his wifey, then yo, bounce on him, no doubt.”  

“how can you drop that kinda talk?” said jane with a faint half-smirk; “you gotta know that even if it wrecks me hard that they’re dissing it, i’d never even hesitate.”  

“i knew you would; and with that, i honestly can’t feel much for your drama.”  

“but if he pulls a no-show this winter, my choice is never even gonna be needed. like, a thousand plot twists might drop in six months.”  

the thought of him ghosting for good was instantly roasted by elizabeth. to her, it was just caroline’s extra, self-serving vibes; there’s no way that no matter how artfully or loudly she spills the tea, it could ever sway a dude who’s all about his own independence.  

she laid down the real tea to her sis with all the force of a truth bomb, and soon enough, the vibe turned into pure happy energy. jane’s mood wasn’t even lowkey trash; little by little, she started hoping that bingley would totally make a grand comeback to netherfield and slide in to make every wish of her heart come true—even if her feels got a bit hesistant sometimes.  

they agreed that mrs. bennet should only catch wind about the fam bouncing without getting all triggered about the gentleman’s conduct; but even that tiny leak had her stressing hard, moaning that it was super unlucky for the ladies to dip right when they were getting all close and cliquey. after a long meltdown session, though, she did find a silver lining thinking that mr. bingley would soon be back, sliding into longbourn for dinner; and the final flex was that even though he was only invited to a fam dinner, she was gonna up the ante with two full courses—legit.  

chapter xxii.  

the bennets were booked to chow with the lucases; and later in the day, miss lucas was super chill and actually listened to mr. collins’ never-ending rant. elizabeth grabbed the moment to drop a massive thanks, “it keeps him on his good vibes,” she said, “and i’m hella grateful to you, more than words can spill.”  

charlotte clapped back, letting her friend know she was totally vibing with being useful and that it was a chill trade-off for a tiny slice of her time. super amiable, right? but charlotte’s kindness was on another level—she was lowkey plotting to shield herself from mr. collins’ extra addresses by snagging his attention for herself. such was miss lucas’s cunning plan; and her vibes were so on point that when they dipped that night, she was nearly convinced of a win if he hadn’t been about to yeet out of hertfordshire, like, immediately.  

but real talk, she seriously underestimated his epic independence; because mr. collins peaced out of longbourn house the very next morning with slick stealth, rushing over to lucas lodge to drop himself at her feet. he was dodging his cousins hard—he figured if they caught him bouncing, they’d read his whole game plan, and he wasn’t about to expose his moves until his win was a total slam dunk; even though charlotte had been giving him some decent props, he was still kinda diffident ever since that wednesday fiasco.  

his welcome, though, was straight-up next-level. miss lucas spied him from an upper window as he strolled toward the crib, and instantly went full “accidental meet-up” mode in the lane. but little did she know that a tidal wave of love and slick eloquence was waiting for her there.  

in literally the blink of mr. collins’ endless rants, they sealed the deal to both of their satisfaction; and as they rolled into the house, he got all extra and begged her to just name the day that would make him the happiest dude ever. even though that bold ask had to be stalled for now, the lady wasn’t tryna mess with his glow-up vibes. honestly, his natural luck was so on point that his awkward courtship was immune to any extra charm that might make a gal wanna keep the feelings going; and miss lucas, who only hopped on his train because she craved a solid setup, wasn’t even sweating how fast that setup would lock in.  

sir william and lady lucas got hit up super quick for their approval; and they dished out a yes that was all hearts and rainbows. mr. collins’ current drip made him a total win for their daughter, since they couldn’t offer her major coin; plus, his future wealth vibes were looking mad solid. lady lucas even started calculating—like, way extra, comparing it to how many more years mr. bennet was gonna chill around—and sir william was all, whenever mr. collins cops the longbourn estate, him and his wifey need to pull up at st. james’s, pronto.  

the whole fam was basically buzzing over the news. the little gals were already dreaming of leveling up their haps a year or two earlier than expected; and the bros were all relieved that they no longer had to worry about charlotte staying an old maid forever. charlotte herself kept a pretty chill vibe. she’d straight-up secured her win and even had time to vibe on it later—her reflections were, overall, on fleek. mr. collins, don’t get it twisted, was not exactly a vibe—his chatter was super cringe and his cling was obviously all in his head. but still, dude was gonna be her husband. without putting men or marriage on too high a pedestal, getting hitched had always been her move: it was the only legit, honourable play for well-read gals with a slim bank roll, and even though it might not guarantee full-on happiness, it was the best safeguard against being totally broke. and boom, she locked that win; at twenty-seven, never even rocking a stunner look, she felt super blessed. the only sus part was the shock it’d drop on elizabeth bennet—her ride-or-die friend whom she valued beyond all others. elizabeth would be like, “what the actual heck?” and probably throw some serious shade; even if her resolve stayed strong, her heart would still get wrecked by such disapproval. so she decided to serve the tea herself—telling mr. collins, when he bounced back to longbourn for dinner, to not drop a single hint about what went down to anyone in the fam. he, of course, promised to keep it 100, but keeping that secret was a total struggle, ‘cause his long absence had stirred up a flood of nosy questions on his return that forced him to get creative dodging—and all while he was lowkey dying to announce his booming love.  

since he was set to bounce on his journey bright and early the next day and wouldn’t catch any fam vibes, the goodbye ceremony went down when the ladies were about to crash for the night; and mrs. bennet, all polite and warm, said how stoked they’d be to see him slide back into longbourn whenever his busy schedule allowed.  

“my dear madam,” he shot back, “this invite is lit, exactly what i’ve been waiting for; and trust, i’ll pull up as soon as possible.”  

everyone was shook; and mr. bennet, who wasn’t about that instant comeback life, immediately dropped, “but dude, isn’t there a risk of lady catherine throwing major shade here? you’d be better off ghosting your fam than risk offending your patroness.”  

“my dear sir,” replied mr. collins, “i appreciate the friendly heads up, and you can bet i won’t make any bold moves without her ladyship’s blessing.”  

“you gotta stay woke—no cap, better risk anything than her wrath; and if you think your comeback might crank her off again—which, i mean, is hella likely—just stay home and chill, knowing we’ll catch zero offense.”  

“believe me, my dear sir, i’m mad grateful for all your affectionate vibes; and for real, you’ll be getting a thank-you letter from me soon for this and every other thoughtful nod during my time in hertfordshire. as for my fine cousins, even if i’m not around long enough to make it mandatory, i’m gonna take the liberty of wishing them all the best, not forgetting my cousin elizabeth.”  

with all due respect, the ladies dipped out; all of them were lowkey stunned that he was already scheming a quick return. mrs. bennet was convinced that meant he was planning to drop his addresses on one of her younger babes, and maybe even charlie mary would flip for him. she rated his skills way higher than the rest—there was this solid realness in his moves that always got her hyped; and even though he wasn’t exactly as sharp as she was, she figured that if he got a little inspo from a model like her, he’d turn into a seriously decent catch. but the very next morning? all those dreams got yeeted. miss lucas rang right after brekkie, and in a private huddle with elizabeth, dished out every deet on what went down the day before.  

in the last day or two, elizabeth had even entertained the wild thought that mr. collins might be lowkey catching feels for her friend; but the idea that charlotte could actually hype him up was as far-fetched as her hyping him up herself. so naturally, her jaw dropped so hard that all decorum went out the window, and she couldn’t help but cry out, “engaged to mr. collins! my dear charlotte, that’s literally impossible!”  

miss lucas had been keeping it all cool while spilling her tea, but upon that direct call-out, her steady vibe flickered for just a sec; though, not one bit surprised, she quickly bounced back into chill mode and calmly said, “why even be surprised, my dear eliza? you really think it’s wild that mr. collins can snag a woman’s good opinion just ’cause he didn’t totally ace his game with you?”  

but elizabeth got her act together and, with all the confidence, assured her that the prospect of their hookup was giving her mad gratitude, and she wished her nothing but all the best vibes imaginable.  

“i totally get your feels,” replied charlotte; “you’re probably shook—like, super shook—that mr. collins was lowkey tryna lock it down with you. but once you get some time to marinate on it, i hope you’ll be cool with my move. i’m not here for that sappy romance, you know. i never was, and i never will be. i’m just after a cozy crib; and when you peep mr. collins’s whole vibe—his connections, his status—I’m legit convinced that my shot at happiness with him is as solid as most peeps can flex when diving into married life.”  

elizabeth, all quiet-like, answered “undoubtedly;” and after an awkward pause, they bounced back to rejoin the fam. charlotte didn’t stick around long, leaving elizabeth to stew on all the tea she’d just heard. it took her ages to even get over the shock that such a mismatched deal could actually get accepted. elizabeth had always felt that charlotte’s take on marriage was totally different from hers—but she never imagined that when push came to shove, charlotte would trade every better feel for some worldly gain. charlotte, as mr. collins’s wife, turned out to be the ultimate cringe-fest—a total facepalm moment! and on top of that, elizabeth was hit with the harsh truth that her friend could never be even remotely happy in the mess she chose.  

protested, he must be totally off-base.  

chapter xxiii.  

lizbeth was chilling with her mom and sisters, lowkey processing all the tea and wondering if she was even allowed to spill it, when sir william lucas himself rolled in—sent by his daughter to drop the news of her engagement to the fam. with a whole load of compliments and major self-gratulation about the hookup between the houses, he started unfolding the deets to an audience that wasn’t just curious but straight-up incredulous; because mrs. bennet, all stubborn and with zero filter, kept firing off that he must be totally off here; and lydia, forever unfiltered and often savage, boomed out, “omg! sir william, how do you even drop a story like this? don’t you know that mr. collins is eyeing lizzy for the wedding bells?”  

it would take some epic courtier-level chill to not flip at that shade, but sir william kept it classy throughout; even as he asked for a sec to double-check his deets, he took all their cheeky jabs with the calmest, most patient vibes ever.  

feeling it was her move to save him from the extra mess, elizabeth stepped up to back up his account by casually mentioning that she’d already caught wind of it straight from charlotte herself; and she worked hard to hush her mom and sisters’ extra outbursts by dropping some genuine, heartfelt congrats to sir william—joined by jane—and throwing in a bunch of remarks about the promising happiness the match could bring, mr. collins’s (ahem) top-tier character, and even the bonus that hunsford was a chill distance from london.  

mrs. bennet, overpowered and too shook to speak while sir william was around, went off as soon as he dipped. first, she kept dissing the whole thing as bogus; second, she was dead sure mr. collins got totally played; third, she was convinced they’d never actually vibe happily together; and fourth, she was screaming that the whole deal could—and should—be nixed. plus, she drilled two major takeaways into everyone’s brain: one, that elizabeth was the mastermind behind all this mischief; and two, that she herself got massively played by everyone. she spent the rest of the day stuck on these two hot takes, and nothing could console or calm her. she stayed salty: a whole week went by before she could even see elizabeth without unleashing a scolding, a month passed before she could talk to sir william or lady lucas without throwing shade, and it took mad months before she could even begin to forgive their daughter.  

mr. bennet was on a completely different chill vibe—his feels were super zen, and he even called them pretty pleasant; because, he said, it made him laugh to learn that charlotte lucas, who he always pegged as kinda sensible, was actually as clownish as his wife—and even more extra than his daughter!  

jane admitted she was a little shook by the match, but she cared way more about wishing them all the best than freaking out over it; and elizabeth couldn’t even get her to think it was unlikely. kitty and lydia, on the flip side, weren’t even lowkey jealous of miss lucas—since mr. collins is literally just a clergyman—and it was just another juicy piece of gossip to spread at meryton.  

lady lucas was totally riding high, not even hiding her triumph as she shot back at mrs. bennet about the sweet comfort of having a daughter locked in with a solid match; and she busted out to longbourn way more than usual just to brag about how happy she was—despite mrs. bennet’s sour looks and constant burns that could’ve straight-up ghosted happiness.  

between elizabeth and charlotte, there was this heavy vibe of awkward silence on the tea, and elizabeth was convinced that no real trust could ever vibe between them again. her major disappointment in charlotte pushed her to adore her own sister even more—the one who’s basically untouchable in her rectitude and delicacy—and she worried about her sis’ happiness more and more each day, especially since bingley had been ghost for a week with zero news on his comeback.

jane had already slid a quick reply to caroline’s note and was lowkey counting down the days till the next epic ping. the promised thank-you letter from mr. collins landed on tuesday, addressed to their dad, and was written with all the deep, solemn gratitude you’d expect after a whole year crashin’ with the fam. after offloading his entire conscience on that, he went on to drop mad hype about how stoked he was to have secured the love vibes of their chill neighbour, miss lucas, and then spilled that he was only down to kick it with her—so that’s why he was all in on sealing their squad’s invite for him to come back to longbourn, where he was hyped to roll in next monday in two weeks; for lady catherine, he added, was totally vibing with his marriage plans, wanting it to go down asap, which he was sure would be an unbeatable flex against his ride-or-die charlotte to mark an early day for him to become, no cap, the happiest dude ever.

mr. collins’s comeback to hertfordshire was no longer a vibe for mrs. bennet. on the real, she was just as ready to diss it as her hubby. it was hella sus that he’d choose longbourn over lucas lodge; plus, it was mega inconvenient and an absolute hassle. she was over having visitors crash her crib when her health was in a total meh mode, and lovers? they were, hands down, the worst. that was mrs. bennet’s constant lowkey grumble, and it only added to her extra drama over mr. bingley’s ongoing ghosting.

both jane and elizabeth were totally uncomfortable with the whole tea. day after day, nothing new came through except the same meryton rumor that he was never comin’ back to netherfield all winter—a rumor that had mrs. bennet raging and clapping back every chance she got, calling it a straight-up scandalous lie.

even elizabeth started catchin’ major feels—not 'cause bingley was indifferent—but 'cause she feared his icy sisters might just pull a power play and keep him away. even though she was lowkey not down with admitting an idea that would straight-up wreck jane’s happiness and mess with her lover’s vibe, the thought kept on creepin’ up. the combined cold moves of his two unfeeling sisters, his overbearing bestie, plus the extra pull from miss darcy and the lit distractions of london, might just be too much for his loyalty to handle, she fretted.

as for jane, her anxiety while stuck in suspense was, no cap, even more brutal than elizabeth’s—but she kept her feels on the dl. so between the two of them, the bingley drama was never really brought up. meanwhile, her mom, showing zero chill, could go an hour without droppin’ bingley tea, constantly expressin’ her impatience for his arrival, or even straight-up demand that jane confess that if he didn’t bounce back, she’d feel totally dissed. jane had to summon every ounce of her zen to roll with these savage burn attacks in relative peace.

mr. collins bounced back right on the dot on that monday in two weeks, but the welcome at longbourn wasn’t nearly as extra as it had been on his debut. dude was so hyped he didn’t even need extra limelight; and thank the meme gods, the whole lovey-dovey business kept him busy enough that the fam got a break from his constant presence. he basically spent most of his days chillin’ at lucas lodge and only popped back to longbourn in time to drop a quick “sorry for ghosting” before everyone hit the hay.

“whenever she spoke in a low voice”

mrs. bennet was in a seriously pitiable state. the mere mention of any match drama sent her into a fit of bad vibes, and no matter where she went, the gossip about it was on blast. the sight of miss lucas was instantly off-putting to her. seeing her as the new queen of that house, mrs. bennet felt a jealous, burning dislike. every time charlotte swung by, she was convinced charlotte was hyping up her takeover; and every time she overheard charlotte whispering to mr. collins, mrs. bennet was sure they were scheming about flipping the longbourn estate and booting her and her girls once mr. bennet was gone. she then went off on her husband with a bitter tirade.

“indeed, mr. bennet,” she snapped, “it’s so hard to even imagine that charlotte lucas will ever be the mistress of this house – that i’d be forced to give way and watch her take my spot!”

“my dear, do not get caught up in such gloomy vibes. let’s hope for better days and trust that i’m the one who’ll survive.”

that wasn’t exactly soothing for mrs. bennet; so instead of firing back, she just kept on ranting.

“i can’t even deal with the thought of them snagging all this estate. if it wasn’t for that stupid entail, i’d be chill with it.”

“what wouldn’t you be chill with?”

“i’d be cool with anything, honestly.”

“let’s be grateful that you aren’t totally numb about it.”

“i can never be hyped about that entail, mr. bennet. like, how can anyone have the guts to lock an estate away from their own daughters? i just don’t get it; and it’s all for mr. collins’s sake too! why should he get it over anyone else?”

“i’ll let you figure that one out,” mr. bennet replied.

chapter xxiv.

iss bingley’s letter popped up and finally shut down all the doubt. the very first line spilled that they were all set for a winter in london, and it ended with her brother’s sad regret about not having enough time to vibe with his hertfordshire homies before bouncin’ out of the country.

hope was totally canceled; and when jane broke down the rest of the letter, there was barely anything but the writer’s lovey-dovey confession to ease her pain. the bulk of the note was all about miss darcy’s insane props—her countless dope qualities getting flexed again—while caroline bragged about how close they were getting and even predicted that all the wishes from her last note were gonna come true. she also beamed about her brother chillin’ as an inmate in mr. darcy’s crib, and dropped some lit details about his plans for new furniture.

elizabeth, who quickly got the lowdown from jane, took in the news with silent indignation. her heart was torn between deep concern for her sister and lowkey resentment toward everyone else. when caroline claimed her bro was all about miss darcy, elizabeth was like, “nah, that’s bogus.” she never doubted that bingley was true to jane—as true as she always had been—but she couldn’t help feelin’ a surge of anger, even contempt, at his extra chill vibe and lack of backbone, which turned him into a puppet for his scheming crew while he sacrificed his own happiness on their wild whims. if it were just his own feels on the line, he could flex however he wanted; but since jane’s vibe was caught up in it too, she was sure he must be feeling the cost. it became a topic for endless deep dives, though ultimately, whether bingley’s vibe had actually died or was just suppressed by his friends’ meddling, and regardless if he was clued in on jane’s crush or completely oblivious, her opinion of him might shift but jane’s heart stayed equally bruised.

after a day or two of nerve-cracking silence, jane finally mustered up the courage to spill her feels to elizabeth; and eventually, when mrs. bennet bounced and left them alone after another marathon rant about netherfield and its master, jane couldn’t hold it in any longer and blurted out—

“oh, i wish my dear mom could get a grip! she has zero clues about the pain she dishes out with her nonstop bingley rants. but i won’t get all down about it. it can’t last forever. he’ll be forgotten, and we’ll all bounce back to the way things were.”

elizabeth peered at her sister with mad incredulous concern, but stayed silent.

“you seriously doubt me,” cried jane, a bit flushed, “but honestly, you’ve got no reason. he might stick in my memory as the chillest guy i know, but that’s all there is to it. i’ve got nothing to hope for or fear, and nothing to call him out on. thank god i’m spared that pain. give it a little time—i’m definitely gonna level up—”

then, raising her volume a bit, she added, “i already feel secure knowing it was just a big error of fancy on my part, and that it hurt no one but me.”

“my dear jane,” exclaimed elizabeth, “you’re way too awesome. your pure sweetness and selflessness are literally angelic; i don’t even know what to say. i feel like i’ve never truly done you justice or loved you like you deserve.”

miss bennet quickly downplayed any extra merit on her part, tossing the praise right back onto her sister’s warm, genuine affection.

“nah,” elizabeth continued, “this just isn’t fair. you wanna think the whole world’s on the up and up, and it hurts you if i throw any shade. i just want to see you as perfect, but you’re kind of blocking that, you know? don’t worry about me going overboard or stepping on your turf of universal good vibes—you really don’t need to. i only love a handful of people, and even fewer i think highly of. the more i peep the world, the more i’m disappointed by how inconsistent everyone is, and how little you can really trust appearances when it comes to merit or sense. lately, i’ve seen two cases: one i won’t even mention, and the other is charlotte’s marriage. it’s totally unaccountable! like, from every angle, it just doesn’t add up!”

“my dear lizzy, don’t spiral into those feels. they’re only gonna wreck your happiness. you gotta give some credit to differences in situation and personality. just peep mr. collins’s basic respectability and charlotte’s steady, smart vibes. remember, she comes from a huge fam, and fortune-wise, she’s a total catch—so be ready to believe, for everyone’s sake, that she might even have some real regard and respect for our cousin.”

“i’d try to buy into almost anything to humor you, but no one else benefits from believing that; because if i ever thought charlotte actually cared about him, i’d only end up thinking her brain is even weaker than what i already reckon of her heart. my dear jane, mr. collins is, without doubt, a conceited, pompous, narrow-minded, and downright silly dude—you know it as well as i do; and you have to feel, just like me, that the woman who weds him can’t possibly have a sound head on her shoulders. you just can’t defend her—even if it’s charlotte lucas. for one person’s sake, you can’t twist the meaning of principle and integrity, or try to convince either of us that selfishness equals prudence, and that being numb to danger somehow equals a secure path to happiness.”

“i think your words are too harsh on both counts,” replied jane, “and i hope you’ll come around once you see them happy together. but enough of all that. you mentioned something else—the two cases. i’m not misunderstanding you, but please, dear lizzy, don’t hurt me by pinning all the blame on that one person or saying your opinion of him is totally done for. we can’t be so quick to assume we’re intentionally getting burned. we can’t expect a super lively young man to always be ultra-guarded and cautious. most of the time, it’s just our own vanity fooling us—women tend to overestimate how much admiration actually matters.”

“and men do take care that they should.”

“if it’s done on purpose, then it can’t really be excused; but i seriously doubt there’s as much scheming in the world as some people think.”

“i’m definitely not saying mr. bingley’s moves are all part of some grand design,” said elizabeth, “but even without anyone planning mischief or trying to make others unhappy, mistakes and misery can totally sneak in. thoughtlessness, not caring about other people’s feelings, and a total lack of backbone will do the trick.”

“and are you blaming it on one or the other?”

“yeah; mostly the lack of backbone. but if i keep goin’, you’re gonna get pissed hearing what i think about folks you’re all about. stop me while you can.”

“so you still reckon his sisters are pulling his strings?”

“yup, in cahoots with his bestie.”

“i can’t even believe it. why would they try to influence him? they’re only out here wishing for his happiness; and if he’s truly into me, no other girl could ever snag that.”

“your first take is totally off. they might be hoping for way more than just his love—they might be lookin’ to boost his bank account and status; they might even want him to marry a girl who’s all about the cash, big connections, and major pride.”

“no doubt they do wanna see him pick miss darcy,” replied jane, “but maybe it’s coming from some real, deeper feels than you’re thinking. they’ve known her way longer than they’ve known me—so it makes sense if they’re more into her. but no matter what their own wishlist is, it’s super unlikely they’d ever go against their own brother. what sister would even think to do that unless there was some huge red flag? if they really thought he was all about me, they wouldn’t even try to break us up—and if he were, there’s no way they could succeed. by assuming that crush, you’re making everyone seem extra fake and off, and it just makes me so unhappy. please, don’t stress me out with that thought. i’m not ashamed of being mistaken—or at least, it’s minor compared to how i’d feel if i started thinking badly of him or his sisters. let’s just take it in the best light possible, the only way it makes sense.”

elizabeth couldn’t even bring herself to oppose that wish; and from then on, mr. bingley’s name was barely ever dropped between them.

mrs. bennet kept on being extra about him not comin’ back, and even though elizabeth broke it down for her every day, mrs. bennet stayed totally perplexed over it. her daughter tried hard to convince her that his vibe for jane was just a common, fleeting crush that’d vanish once he stopped seeing her; but even if that explanation could work, mrs. bennet rehashed the same story day in, day out. her only small comfort was the thought that mr. bingley would deign to return come summer.

mr. bennet, on the other hand, treated the whole drama with way more chill. “so, lizzy,” he said one day, “i reckon your sister is totally crossed in love—and props to her. besides getting married, a girl kinda digs havin’ her heart bruised every now and then. it’s like a quirky badge that sets her apart from all the other girls. when’s your turn? i bet you can’t stand always bein’ outshined by jane. now’s your moment. there are plenty of officers in meryton ready to break the hearts of every young lady in the area. let wickham be your guy—he’s a pretty cool dude and would totally jilt you with style.”

“thank you, sir, but i’d be totally satisfied with a less extra dude. we can’t all be riding on jane’s good fortune.”

“true,” mr. bennet agreed, “but it’s comforting to know that no matter what kind of heartbreak comes your way, you’ve got a loving mom who’ll always flip it into something positive.”

mr. wickham’s presence turned out to be a major mood-lifter, banishing the gloom that the recent wild drama had draped over the longbourn clan. they bumped into him all the time, and on top of his other wild recommendations, he was now all about that unfiltered, no-reserve flex. everything elizabeth had already heard about his beef with mr. darcy and all the suffering he’d endured from him was now out in the open, and everyone was lowkey hyped on how much they’d always despised mr. darcy anyway before any of this went down.

miss bennet was the only one who even entertained the idea that there might be some hidden, extenuating backstory unknown to the whole of hertfordshire—her soft, steady realness always begged for a little mercy and considered that maybe mistakes happened; but for everyone else, mr. darcy was already tagged as the worst of men.

chapter xxv.

after a week of flexing love declarations and scheming for ultimate happy vibes, mr. collins got a summons from his super amiable charlotte when saturday rolled around. even though the pain of separation was real, he was hyped about prepping for his bride’s welcome bash—he was certain that soon after bouncing back to hertfordshire, they’d lock in the day that would crown him the happiest dude ever. he peaced out from his longbourn fam with the same solemn drama as before, wished his fly cousins all the best health and happiness, and promised their dad another thank-you letter.

on the following monday, mrs. bennet got her fix by receiving her brother and his wife, who, as always, rolled in to spend christmas at longbourn. mr. gardiner was one hell of a sensible, dapper dude—way superior to his sister in both nature and education. the netherfield ladies would have been totally shook to learn that a man hustlin’ in trade and peepin’ over his own warehouses could be so well-bred and chill. mrs. gardiner, who was several years younger than mrs. bennet and mrs. philips, was an ultra-friendly, bright, and elegant queen, and an absolute fave among her longbourn nieces. especially with the two eldest, there was this extra special vibe—they’d been crashing at her place in town on the reg.

the first mission for mrs. gardiner when she arrived was to dish out her presents and break down the latest fashion trends. once that was handled, she got to play the role of listener. mrs. bennet then went on a long tirade of grievances, unloading complaint after complaint about how terribly she’d been treated since the last time she saw her sister. two of her girls were nearly hitched—and in the end, nothing even came of it.

“i’m not blaming jane,” she continued, “'cause jane would’ve snatched mr. bingley if she could. but, lizzy! oh, sister! it’s so hard to even think that she might have been mr. collins’s wife by now if it weren’t for her own stubbornness. he straight-up popped an offer right here in this room, and she just shut him down. the fallout? now lady lucas is gonna have a daughter hitched before i even do, and the longbourn estate is still locked down by that entail. the lucases are hella artful folks, sis—always out for whatever they can snag. i hate to spill this tea about them, but facts are facts. it makes me super nervous and downright miserable to be blocked in my own family, especially with neighbours who only think about numero uno. but honestly, your comin’ right now is the biggest comfort, and i’m so glad to hear your updates about long sleeves.”

mrs. gardiner, who had already caught the main deets from jane and elizabeth’s chats with her, threw a small clapback at mrs. bennet and then, feelin’ for her nieces, smoothly switched the convo.

later, when she was alone with elizabeth, mrs. gardiner spilled more tea on the matter. “it looked like a prime match for jane,” she said, “and i’m so sorry it didn’t go through. but you know, these things keep on happenin’! a dude like mr. bingley, as you describe him, can fall for a cute girl in just a few weeks and then—if fate steps in—forget her just as fast. these mood swings are hella common.”

“offended two or three young ladies”

“an excellent consolation in its own way,” said elizabeth, “but that just ain’t gonna cut it for us. we don’t get hurt by accident. it’s super rare that meddlin’ friends can make a rich young dude suddenly stop vibin’ with a girl he was madly in love with just days ago.”

“but that expression of ‘violently in love’ is so basic, so sketch, so vague that it gives me almost zero deets. it’s like, dropped both when you’ve only chilled for like half an hour and when you’re feeling that legit, ride-or-die connection. so, real talk, how extra was mr. bingley’s love?”

“i never peeped a more lit vibe; he was lowkey ghosting everyone else and was totally zoned in on her. every time they met it got even more on point and noticeable. at his own party, he straight-up dissed two or three girls by not asking them to dance; and i even slid up to him twice and got nada in response. i mean, could there be any fresher symptoms? isn’t being generally rude basically the essence of love?”

“oh, yes! that’s totally the type of love i think he had. poor jane! i feel so bad for her, because with her whole vibe she might not bounce out of it right away. honestly, it would’ve been way better if it happened to you, lizzy; you’d have yeeted those feels in no time. but do you really think she’d be down to roll back with us? a change of scenery might be clutch—and honestly, a lil escape from home could work wonders.”

elizabeth was super hyped about this idea, and she was totally sure her sister was down for it.

“i hope,” added mrs. gardiner, “that no thought about this dude will sway her. we live in totally different parts of town, our crews are completely different, and like, we barely roll out, so it’s mad unlikely they’d ever bump into each other unless he actually comes through to see her.”

“and that’s a total no-go; he’s now chilling with his buddy, and mr. darcy would literally never let him call on jane in that part of london! my dear aunt, how could you even think that? mr. darcy might’ve heard of a spot like gracechurch street, but he wouldn’t believe that a month’s glow-up could scrub away its mess if he ever stepped in; and, for real, mr. bingley never makes a move without him.”

“that works even better. i genuinely hope they never cross paths. but isn’t jane always texting with his sis? she won’t be able to help but call.”

“she’ll just yeet the acquaintance entirely.”

but even though elizabeth played it all out like that—and even though the drama of bingley being kept from seeing jane was even juicier—she still felt some lowkey worry that made her think it wasn’t totally doomed. sometimes, and honestly she often thought it could even happen, his feels might get recharged, with the influence of his friends getting totally outclassed by the pure, natural pull of jane’s vibes.

miss bennet was hella stoked to take up her aunt’s invite; and the bingleys were still on her radar just as she hoped, since caroline wasn’t crashing with her brother, meaning she could, like, occasionally kick it with her in the morning without any risk of running into him.

the gardiners crashed at longbourn for a week; and with the philipses, the lucases, and the officers in the mix, there wasn’t a day without some hookup or plan. mrs. bennet had arranged so much activity for her sibs that they never even sat down for a proper fam dinner. whenever they were home, some officers always popped up – and of course, mr. wickham was always one of them; and on those occasions, mrs. gardiner, all sus from elizabeth’s warm props for him, kept a close watch on the two. she didn’t exactly think they were head-over-heels in love, but their mutual fave status was lowkey giving her the creeps; so she decided to chat with elizabeth on the low before bouncing from hertfordshire, to drop some real tea about how reckless it is to encourage that kind of attachment.

to mrs. gardiner, wickham had this one trick for dishing out fun that wasn’t tied to his usual swagger. like, about ten or a dozen years ago, before she got hitched, she spent mad time in that very part of derbyshire where he was from. so, they had a ton of mutual peeps in common; and even though wickham hadn’t been around much there since mr. darcy’s dad dipped five years back, he still had the clout to drop fresher tea on her old squad than she could ever scoop up.

mrs. gardiner had peeped pemberley and knew the late mr. darcy’s character inside out. so, here she had endless tea to spill. in comparing her own old-school memories of pemberley with the nitty-gritty deets wickham was throwing down, while dropping major props on its late owner, she was lowkey fueling both his flex and her own hype. when she caught wind of how the current mr. darcy was treating wickham, she tried to remember something about that guy’s rep as a young lad that might still vibe with it; and, for real, she was convinced she’d heard mr. fitzwilliam darcy once being dissed as a super proud, ill-natured kid.

“will you come and see me.”

chapter xxvi.

rs. gardiner’s caution to elizabeth was dropped on her right on time and in a totally chill way when she got to chat with her one-on-one: after coming through with straight-up truth, she continued:

“you’re too smart a girl, lizzy, to fall head over heels just because people warn you against it; so i’m not even scared to spill it straight. real talk, i need you to keep your guard up. don’t get wrapped up in, or try to force him into, some extra feels that, without the cash flow, are mega impractical. i’m not throwing shade on him – he’s actually a fascinating young dude; and if he had the coin he was supposed to have, i bet you couldn’t do any better. but as it is—you absolutely mustn’t let your imagination run wild. you’ve got brains, and we all expect you to flex that. i’m sure your dad counts on your solid choices and good vibes. you seriously can’t let him down.”

“my dear aunt, fr, this is mad serious.”

“yeah, and i’m counting on getting you to be super serious too.”

“alright, then, no worries. i’ll handle my biz and mr. wickham too. if i can, i’m not gonna let him catch major feels for me.”

“elizabeth, you’re def not being serious right now.”

“pardon me, lemme rephrase. at the moment, i’m not in love with mr. wickham; no, i swear i’m not. but, yo, he’s hands-down the most chill dude i’ve ever met—and if he gets too attached, i honestly think it’d be better that he doesn’t. i totally get how reckless that would be. oh, that cursed mr. darcy! my dad’s high-key opinion of me means the world; and i’d be devastated to lose that. yet, my dad’s also lowkey into mr. wickham. bottom line, dear aunt, i’d be super bummed to be the reason any of you get hurt; but since we see every day that when young peeps have feels, they barely get blocked by not having the dough to link up, how can i swear i’m wiser than everyone else if i get tempted? all i can promise is not to rush it. i won’t be in a mad rush to crown myself as his top choice. when i’m with him, i won’t be wishing on every star. in short, i’ll do my best.”

“maybe it’d be better if you lowkey discouraged him from coming over so often. at the very least, don’t remind your mom to invite him.”

“like i totally did the other day,” said elizabeth with a knowing smile; “true, it’d be wise for me to chill on that. but don’t think he’s always over every single time. it’s on your account he’s been invited so much this week. you know how my mom is about keeping her friends around all the time. but honestly, i swear on my life, i’ll do what i reckon is smartest; and now, i really hope you’re cool with that.”

her aunt was like, “bet,” and elizabeth, after dropping a thanks for the solid hints, they split – a rare moment when advice was given without any mad drama.

mr. collins bounced back to hertfordshire soon after the gardiners and jane dipped; but since he ended up crashing with the lucases, his comeback wasn’t a major hassle for mrs. bennet. his wedding was, like, right around the corner; and she had come to terms with it, even going as far as saying in a kinda nasty tone that she “wished they might be happy.” thursday was the big wedding day, and on wednesday, miss lucas swung by for a farewell visit; and when she got up to leave, elizabeth, totally embarrassed by her mom’s awkward and half-hearted well-wishes yet sincerely moved, accompanied her out of the room. as they rolled downstairs together, charlotte said,—

“i’m counting on hearing from you hella often, eliza.”

“oh, for sure, you will.”

“and i got another favor askin’—will you come hit me up?”

“i hope we’ll vibe often in hertfordshire.”

“i ain’t likely to bounce from kent for a while. so promise me, alright, that you’ll roll over to hunsford.”

elizabeth couldn’t say no, even though she lowkey expected the visit to be kinda meh.

“my father and maria are crashing with me in march,” added charlotte, “and i hope you’ll be down to join the squad. honestly, eliza, you’ll be as welcome to me as either of them.”

the wedding went down: the bride and groom bounced off to kent from the church door, and everyone had the usual amount of chatter about it. elizabeth soon got word from her friend, and their texts were as steady and frequent as ever—but being totally raw about it just wasn’t on the cards anymore. elizabeth could never write to her without feeling that all that cozy intimacy was kinda over; and even though she was determined not to slack on being a correspondent, it was more about what had been rather than what was now. charlotte’s first letters came in with a ton of hype—everyone was mad curious to know how she’d spill the tea about her new crib, what she thought of lady catherine, and just how happy she dared to claim she was; but when elizabeth read them, it turned out charlotte was dropping exactly the deets she’d expected. she wrote all cheerful, surrounded by good vibes, and mentioned nothing she couldn’t rave about. the house, the furniture, the neighborhood, and even the roads were all on point for her, and lady catherine’s chill and obliging behavior was off the charts. it was basically mr. collins’s softened-up version of hunsford and rosings; and elizabeth knew she’d have to visit there herself to catch the full story.

jane had already dropped a few lines to her sis, letting her know they’d landed safe in london; and when she texted again, elizabeth hoped she’d be able to spill some tea on the bingleys.

elizabeth’s eagerness for that second letter totally paid off, as it does with impatience in general. jane had been in town for a week without seeing or hearing from caroline. she explained it by thinking that her last letter from longbourn to her friend had, like, gotten lost in the void.

“my aunt,” she continued, “is rolling into that part of town tomorrow, and imma slide by to hit up grosvenor street.”

she texted again after the visit when she caught up with miss bingley. “i didn’t think caroline was in a good mood,” she wrote, “but she was super glad to see me and even clowned me for not giving her a heads up about my london trip. so, i guess my last letter never made it. of course, i asked after their brother. he’s doing fine, but he’s so deep in mr. darcy’s world that they barely ever catch him. i heard miss darcy was supposed to hit up dinner, and honestly, i wish i could see her. my visit was short since caroline and mrs. hurst had to bounce. i dare say, i’ll see them around here soon.”

elizabeth shook her head over that letter. it was clear that only some random accident could’ve let mr. bingley find out that her sis was in town.

four weeks zipped by, and jane didn’t get a peep from him. she tried convincing herself she wasn’t bummed about it; but she couldn’t ignore miss bingley’s total ghosting any longer. after waiting at home every morning for a solid two weeks and coming up with a fresh excuse every single night for her, the visitor finally showed up; but the short stay—and even more, the major switch in her vibe—made it clear to jane that she couldn’t fool herself anymore. the letter she dropped on this occasion to her sister totally spilled the tea on her feels:{186}—

“my dearest lizzy, i’m sure you’ll never win against your own killer judgment at my expense once i confess that i was completely played by miss bingley’s vibes toward me. but, dear sis, even though this proves you right, don’t think i’m being stubborn when i say that, given how she acted, my confidence was as real as your suspicions. i just can’t figure out why she even wanted to get so close to me; but if the same scenario went down again, i’m 100% sure i’d get played all over again. caroline didn’t hit me up until yesterday; and not a single note or text came before that. when she finally showed, it was hella obvious she wasn’t feeling it at all; she dropped a weak, formal apology for not coming by sooner, didn’t say a word about wanting another hangout, and in every way was so totally switched up that when she bounced, i was done with that friendship. i feel for her, though i can’t help but call her out, because she seriously messed up by singling me out; i can safely say every move toward getting close started on her side. but still, i pity her, ‘cause she must feel she’s been off, and i’m sure her anxiety over her brother is why she’s acting this way. i don’t need to spill more; and even though we all know that this anxiety is totally extra, if she’s feeling it, it explains her behavior toward me; and since her brother is, like, mad dear to her, any stress over him is both natural and kinda sweet. i still wonder, though, why she’s scared now, ‘cause if he ever really cared about me, we’d have linked up ages ago. i’m certain he knows i’m in town from something she said herself; and yet, the way she talks makes it seem like she’s trying to convince herself that he’s actually into miss darcy. i can’t get it. if it weren’t for me being scared of coming off too harsh, i’d be almost tempted to say there’s a major vibe of two-faced energy in all this. i’m gonna try to shake off every painful thought and focus on what makes me happy – your love and the constant kindness of our dear uncle and aunt. hit me up soon. miss bingley mentioned something about him never coming back to netherfield and even ditching the house, but that’s totally up in the air. best not to mention it. i’m super glad you got such chill deets from our friends at hunsford. please, go see them with sir william and maria. i’m sure you’ll be mega comfy there.

“yours, etc.”

this letter hit elizabeth in the feels, but her mood bounced back as she realized that jane wouldn’t be played by that sister ever again. all hope from the brother was totally toast. she wouldn’t even wish for a reboot of his attention. his rep was, like, totally trashed on every review; and as a kind of payback for him, and a win for jane, she seriously hoped he’d lock it down with mr. darcy’s sister soon, ‘cause according to wickham’s tea, she’d make him regret totally blowing his shot.

around that time, mrs. gardiner reminded elizabeth about her promise concerning that gentleman and pressed for deets; and elizabeth had loads to send that would please her aunt way more than herself. his obvious crush had faded, his advances were over, and he was totally vibing with someone else. elizabeth was sharp enough to peep it all, but she could watch and write about it without getting all bent out of shape. her heart got only a tiny bit clapped, and her ego was chill with thinking that she’d have been his one and only if the chips had fallen different. that sudden drop of ten thousand pounds was, like, the ultimate flex of the girl he was trying to charm; but elizabeth, maybe not as woke in this scenario as charlotte, didn’t even beef with him for wanting his independence. honestly, nothing could be more natural; and while she figured it must’ve taken him some struggle to let go of her, she was totally cool with that being a smart, mutually dope move, and she could genuinely wish him happiness.

all this tea was relayed to mrs. gardiner; and after laying out the lowdown, elizabeth continued:—

“i’m now convinced, my dear aunt, that i’ve never been really in love; ‘cause if i had ever felt that pure, next-level passion, i’d now be straight-up hating his name and cursing him hard. but my vibes for him aren’t just warm—they’re even neutral when it comes to miss king. i honestly can’t say i hate her or that i’m even a bit against thinking she’s a really good chick. there’s just no love in all this mess. my eyes have been super open; and even though i’d probably be seen as a way more interesting catch if i were head-over-heels in love with him, i don’t regret being lowkey in the romance department at all. sometimes, buying into importance comes at way too steep a price. kitty and lydia are taking his ghosting way harder than i am. they’re still new to the game, not yet ready for the brutal truth that handsome dudes need some coin to keep it real, not just that plain look.”

“on the stairs.”

chapter xxvii.

with not much extra drama in the longbourn family—aside from the lowkey treks to meryton, which were sometimes messy and sometimes freezing—january and february just slid by. march was set to whisk elizabeth off to hunsford. at first, she wasn’t really vibing with the idea; but soon she found out that charlotte was totally banking on the plan, and gradually, she started to get hyped about it too, with way more pleasure and certainty. being away made her miss charlotte even more and totally mellowed out her disgust for mr. collins. the plan itself was fresh as heck; and, with a mom and some seriously cringey sisters at home, a change of scenery was welcome on its own. plus, the trip would give her a sneak peek of jane; so as the day drew near, she’d be super bummed if there was any delay. everything went off without a hitch and was locked in just like charlotte sketched it out. she was set to roll with sir william and his second daughter. and later on, the bonus of crashing in london for a night was added, making the plan as perfect as it could be.

the only real pain was bouncing from her dad, who was gonna miss her for sure—and when it came down to it, he was so not cool with her dipping that he told her to drop him a line, even almost promising to hit her back on her texts.

the goodbye between her and mr. wickham was totally chill; and on his end, he was even friendlier. his current vibe couldn’t make him forget that elizabeth was the very first one to spark his interest, the first who really listened, cared, and got mad admiration; and in the way he said bye—wishing her every kind of good, reminding her of what to expect from lady catherine de bourgh, and trusting that his opinion of her (and everyone else) would always match up—there was genuine care that, in her book, would always bond her to him in a real, heartfelt way. she left him convinced that whether he was hitched or solo, he’d always be her ultimate model of a chill, likable guy.

her fellow-travellers the next day were still chill enough in her eyes, so she wasn’t about to downgrade his vibe. sir william lucas, along with his daughter maria – a fun, good-humoured girl, but as empty-brained as her pops – were dropping zero fire in conversation, and her ears got hit with as much excitement as hearing the clack of an old school carriage. elizabeth was all about absurdity, but she’d been stuck with sir william for so long that his regurgitated tales of his epic presentation and knighthood were as stale as last week’s memes; his pleasantries were worn-out, just like his tired info.

it was just a 24-mile ride, and they bounced off so early that by noon they were rollin’ up in gracechurch street. as they cruised to mr. gardiner’s pad, jane was posted by a drawing-room window, peeping their arrival: the moment they slid into the passage, she was there to hype them up, and elizabeth, checking her out with full-on earnest vibes, was mega stoked to see her looking as healthy and gorgeous as ever. up on the stairs, a whole squad of little boys and girls were hyped AF to catch a glimpse of their cousin – they couldn’t even chill in the drawing-room because their excitement was off the charts, and their shyness (since they hadn’t seen her in a full twelvemonth) kept them from coming downstairs. it was all pure joy and kindness. the day passed on the chillest vibes; the morning was all hustle and shopping energy, and the evenin’ was booked for a theatre drop.

elizabeth then managed to snag a seat next to her aunt. their first tea was all about her sis; and girl, she was more bummed than shook to hear – in reply to her super detailed questions – that even though jane was always grinding to keep her vibes high, she still hit those low periods hard. but, tbh, it made sense to hope those dark days wouldn’t stick around. mrs. gardiner also spilled the deets on miss bingley’s run at gracechurch street, and replayed multiple convos between jane and herself,{192} proving that jane had, straight up from the heart, dipped from that friendship.

mrs. gardiner then came in clutch, rallyin’ her niece about wickham’s ghosting and giving her props for handling it like a boss.

“but, my dear elizabeth,” she added, “what’s the tea on miss king? i’d be bummed to think our friend’s just a money grab.”

“plz, my dear aunt, what’s the diff in matrimonial moves between a money grab and playing it safe? where does being cautious end and greed begin? last christmas you were trippin’ that his marrying me would be imprudent; and now, since he’s tryna snatch a girl with only ten thousand pounds, you wanna label him a money mob.”

“if you just spill the deets on miss king’s vibe, i’ll know what to think.”

“i reckon she’s a chill kinda girl. i got zero bad vibes about her.”

“but did he even drop a peep of attention on her until her granddad’s departure made her the boss of that fortune?”

“nah—why would he, fam? if he couldn’t score my affections ‘cause i was broke, then what’s the point of sliding into a girl he doesn’t even care about, who’s equally broke?”

“but it’s kinda sus that he’s coming at her so soon after that event.”

“a dude in a rough patch ain't got time for all those fancy etiquettes other folks flex. if she’s cool with it, why the heck not?”

“her not objecting don’t give him a free pass; it just shows she’s lacking in something herself—smarts or feels.{193}”

“well,” exclaimed elizabeth, “if that’s your take, then let it be: he’s a money grab, and she’s a total simp.”

“nah, lizzy, that ain’t my vibe. it’d suck to diss a young buck who’s been hustling in derbyshire for ages.”

“oh, if that’s all, i got mad beef with young bucks from derbyshire; and their besties in hertfordshire ain’t any hotter. i’m so over them. thank the gods! tomorrow i’m bouncin’ to meet a dude with zero chill – no manners, no sense, nothing worth the hype. stupid dudes are the only ones worth knowing, fr.”

“heads up, lizzy; that rant reeks major disappointed energy.”

before the play wrapped up, she snagged an unexpected win – an invite to roll with her uncle and aunt on a summer pleasure cruise.

“we haven’t really mapped out how far this ride goes,” said mrs. gardiner; “but maybe, to the lakes.”

no plan could have been more lit for elizabeth, and she jumped on that invite like it was free pizza. “my absolute fave aunt,” she squealed, “what bliss! what pure joy! you’re like a shot of fresh vibes and mad energy to me. bye-bye, gloom and doom. what are dudes compared to epic mountains and rocks? oh, the hours of pure hype we’re gonna live! and when we bounce back, we won’t be like those basic travelers who can’t even drop the deets of their trip. we’ll actually know where we’ve been – we’ll have receipts for every lit moment. lakes, mountains, and rivers won’t be mixed up in our heads; and if someone tries to flex about where a scene is, we won’t start beefing over it. let our first feels be way less cringe than the norm.{194}”

“at the door.”

chapter xxviii.

the vibe on the next day’s journey was mad fresh and new for elizabeth, and her spirits were straight-up cruising on cloud nine; her sis looked so fire that all worries about her health melted away, and the thought of a northern tour had her buzzing non-stop.

when they dipped from the high road onto the lane to hunsford, every eye was on the hunt for the parsonage, and every turn was a “where’s the crib at?” moment. the faded fence of rosings park marked one side of their turf. elizabeth couldn’t help but grin, remembering all the juicy tea about the peeps living there.

finally, the parsonage popped on screen. the garden sloped down to the road, the house stood firm in it, the green pales and that laurel hedge screamed “arrival,” all telling them they were almost there. mr. collins and charlotte showed up at the door, and the carriage pulled up at a small gate leading—via a short gravel walk—to the pad, all set off by nods and smiles from the whole crew. in no time, they yeeted out of the ride, all hyped and vibing at each other’s presence. mrs. collins greeted her friend with mega energy, and elizabeth was getting even more feel-good about the visit, soaking up all that warm reception. she peeped right away that her cousin’s manners hadn’t skipped a beat after his marriage; his formal civility was still locked in, and he even kept her for a few extra minutes at the gate to grill her on all the family tea. then, without missing a beat aside from him flexing the neat entrance, they got ushered inside; and once in the parlour, he re-welcomed them with over-the-top formality to his humble abode, dutifully repeating all his wife’s offers of refreshments.

elizabeth was here for the show; she couldn’t help picturing that by flaunting the room’s dope proportions, slick look, and tidy furniture, mr. collins was lowkey throwing shade about what she’d missed out on by shutting him down. but even though everything looked on-point and cozy, she wasn’t gonna hit him with any repentant sigh; instead, she marveled at her friend’s ability to stay upbeat with such a clumsy companion. every time mr. collins dropped a comment that his wife would def be embarrassed by—which, lowkey, was pretty frequent—she’d involuntarily sneak a glance at charlotte, catching a shy blush here and there; but mostly, charlotte stayed woke and didn’t even register it. after sitting long enough to peep every piece of furniture in the room—from the sideboard to the fender—and to spill the deets about their journey and all the london tea, mr. collins invited everyone for a stroll in the garden, which was huge and mad well-planned, and which he personally tended to like it was his ultimate hobby flex. gardening was one of his most respectable pleasures; and elizabeth couldn’t help admiring the boss vibe with which charlotte hyped the health perks of the exercise, straight-up encouraging it as hard as she could. here, leading them through every walkway and crosswalk, barely giving them a sec to drop their own claps, he pointed out every tiny detail with such obsessive precision that any regular beauty was left in the dust. he could count the fields in every direction and even name-drop the number of trees in the furthest clump. but out of all the views his garden—or the country, or even the whole kingdom—could boast, nothing compared to the glow-up of rosings, shown off through a gap in the trees bordering the park right across from his crib. it was one sleek, modern building, perfectly posted on rising ground.

from his garden, mr. collins would have taken them on a tour around his two meadows; but the ladies, not sporting the right kicks for trekking on leftover frost, bounced back; and while sir william tagged along with him, charlotte scooped up her sis and friend for a house tour, totally vibing on the chance to show it off without her hubby’s crampy help. the pad was kinda small, but built solid and mad convenient; everything was arranged with neat precision and consistency, and elizabeth gave charlotte all the credit for that. once mr. collins was pretty much off the radar, the crib gave off such major comfort vibes that, judging by charlotte’s obvious enjoyment, elizabeth figured mr. collins would easily fade into the background.

she’d already caught word that lady catherine was still chillin’ in the boonies. that tea got spilled again during dinner when mr. collins jumped in with his two cents:

“yes, miss elizabeth, get ready to peep lady catherine de bourgh this coming sunday at church, and i literally don’t need to say you’ll be vibing with her. she’s all sweetness mixed with extra condescension, and i bet you’ll snag some of her clout once the service wraps up. i’m not even shook that she’ll invite you and my sis maria to every single bash she throws while you’re here. her behavior with my dear charlotte is straight-up charming. we dine at rosings twice a week, and trust me, we’re never allowed to walk home. her ladyship’s ride is always on deck for us. i mean, one of her rides—she’s got a whole collection.”

“lady catherine is literally super respectable and hella sensible,” added charlotte, “and a next-level, attentive neighbor.”

“deadass, my dear, that’s exactly what i’m saying. she’s the kind of woman you can never give too much extra cred to.”

the evenin’ was spent just swapping hertfordshire gossip and rehashing old tea; and when it wound down, elizabeth, holed up in her own room, found herself deep in thought about charlotte’s major contentment, trying to decode her smooth guiding skills and chill way of handling her husband, and admitting that everything was executed on point. she also started daydreaming about how her visit would roll out – the usual low-key grind, the annoying interruptions from mr. collins, and the pure fun vibes hanging at rosings. her imagination lit up with all the possibilities.

around midday the next day, as elizabeth was in her room preppin’ for a stroll, a sudden noise downstairs sent the whole house into a buzz of confusion; and after a hot sec of listening, she heard someone sprinting upstairs in mad haste, hollering for her. she swung open her door and met maria posted on the landing, totally out of breath and hyped, who blurted out:

“in conversation with the ladies”

[copyright 1894 by george allen.]

“oh, my dear eliza! hurry up and slide into the dining-room, ‘cause there’s a wild sight to peep! i’m not even gonna spill the tea on what it is. hustle up and get down here this moment.”

elizabeth grilled her with questions, but maria clammed up, giving nothing more; so they raced down into the dining-room fronting the lane in search of this epic scene—it turned out to be two ladies chillin’ in a low phaeton parked at the garden gate.

“and is this it?” cried elizabeth. “i was expecting at least that the pigs would be crashing the garden, and instead it’s just lady catherine and her daughter!”

“la! my dear,” replied maria, totally shook by the mix-up, “it ain’t lady catherine. the old queen is mrs. jenkinson, who lives with ‘em. the other one is miss de bourgh. just peep her – she’s a tiny little creature. who would’ve thought she could be so skinnied and petite!”

“she’s mad rude for keeping charlotte out in this windy chaos. why isn’t she coming in?”

“oh, charlotte says she barely ever does. it’s like a mega fav when miss de bourgh finally shows up.”

“i vibe with her look,” said elizabeth, switching gears. “she looks all sickly and cranky. yeah, she’s gonna be perfect for him. she’ll turn him into a totally proper bae.”

mr. collins and charlotte were posted at the gate, deep in convos with the ladies; and sir william, which had elizabeth cracking up, was stationed in the doorway, deep in thought about the epic scene before him, constantly bowing every time miss de bourgh shot a glance his way.

eventually, there was nothing more to spill; the ladies yeeted off in their ride, and the rest of the crew bounced back inside. the minute mr. collins peeped the two girls, he immediately started congratulating them on their glow-up, which charlotte explained by saying that the whole squad had been invited to dine at rosings the next day.{200}

“lady catherine, said she, you have given me a treasure.”

chapter xxix.

r. collins’s flex, courtesy of that invite, was total peak. his chance to show off his patroness’s epic grandeur to his starstruck visitors—and to let everyone see her mad civility towards him and his wife—was exactly the spotlight he’d been craving; and the fact that he got the chance so soon was just another example of lady catherine’s extra condescension that he couldn’t help but admire hardcore.

“i gotta confess,” he declared, “i wouldn’t have even blinked if her ladyship had hit us up on sunday for tea and an evenin’ at rosings. given her legendary affability, i kinda expected it. but who could’ve predicted this level of extra? who’d have imagined that we’d get an invite to dine there (and not just us, but the whole squad) right after you rolled in?”

“i’m even less shook about it,” replied sir william, “from my firsthand knowledge of how the high-key elite really roll, something i picked up from my own grind. around the court, these classy moves are nothing new.”

practically all convo over the whole day and the next morn was about their upcoming visit to rosings. mr. collins took it upon himself to school everyone on what to expect, so that the sheer sight of those lavish rooms, endless servants, and a dinner that looked straight-up dope wouldn’t totally overwhelm them.

when the ladies split up for their glow-up session, he told elizabeth:

“don’t stress about your drip, my dear cousin. lady catherine isn’t about demanding next-level elegance from us—she only expects you to rock the best you got out of your wardrobe, nothing extra. she won’t toss shade for keeping it simple. after all, she’s all about keeping that elite vibe intact.”

while they were getting dressed, he popped by their doors a couple times, urging them to hustle because lady catherine was lowkey losing it at being kept waiting for her dinner. all that intimidating tea about her ladyship and her baller lifestyle totally freaked out maria lucas, who wasn’t used to having a crowd around; and she was bracing herself for her debut at rosings with the same jittery anticipation her dad had for his st. james’s presentation.

with the weather on point, they hit a chill half-mile walk across the park. every park’s got its own quirky beauty and vibes; and elizabeth found plenty to dig, even if she wasn’t about to lose her mind like mr. collins thought. she was only mildly impressed by his blow-by-blow rundown of the house’s windows and his spill about what the glazing originally set sir lewis de bourgh back.

as they climbed the steps to the hall, maria’s anxiety was levelin’ up, and even sir william didn’t look all calm. but elizabeth kept her cool. she hadn’t heard a rumor about lady catherine suggesting any miraculous talent or divine virtue, and she figured that just watching a lady with mad cash and clout was something she could handle without breaking a sweat.

from the entrance hall—which mr. collins went on and on about, praising its perfect proportions and polished ornaments—they trailed the servants through an antechamber to the room where lady catherine, her daughter, and mrs. jenkinson were posted. her ladyship, oozing condescension, rose to welcome them; and since mrs. collins had already set it up with her husband that she’d handle the intros, everything went down proper, without all the extra apologies and thanks that mr. collins would’ve insisted on.

even though sir william had been at st. james’s, he was so shook by the grandeur all around him that he managed only a super subtle bow, then slid into his seat wordlessly; and his daughter, almost losing it from fear, sat on the edge of her chair not knowing where to look. elizabeth, though, kept her chill and observed the three ladies before her like a pro. lady catherine was a tall, imposing queen with sharply defined features that might’ve been handsome back in the day. her vibe wasn’t warm at all, and the way she welcomed them made it crystal clear that everyone else was just basic. she didn’t need silence to be intimidating—everything she said dropped in such authoritative tones it screamed self-importance, instantly making mr. wickham pop into elizabeth’s mind; and, after a full day of tea, she was convinced that lady catherine was exactly as mr. wickham had hyped.

after checking out the mother, in whose look and manner elizabeth spotted a hint of mr. darcy, she shifted her gaze to the daughter and nearly joined maria in being shook over how tiny and skinnied she was. there was zero resemblence in figure or face between them. miss de bourgh was pale and looked all under the weather; even though her features weren’t exactly ugly, they were totally forgettable; and she barely spoke above a whisper to mrs. jenkinson, who herself was nothing special and was completely tuned in to what miss de bourgh was saying, while also strategically keeping a mental barrier in place.

after chillin’ for a few minutes, they all got bounced to one of the windows to peep the view, with mr. collins on full commentary mode, pointing out every detail, while lady catherine informed them that the view was way more fire in the summer.{204}

the dinner was extra vibey, with all the servants and every single piece of fire plateware that mr. collins hyped up; and, like, as he lowkey predicted, he slid into his spot at the bottom of the table—courtesy of her ladyship’s orders—and looked like he was living his ultimate flex, convinced there was literally nothing better in life. he carved, munched, and dropped mad props like he was on cloud nine; every dish got first his hype and then sir william, who had finally bounced back enough to echo whatever his son-in-law dropped, in a way elizabeth legit wondered how lady catherine could even handle. but lady catherine was all about their extra admiration, rocking gracious smiles—especially when some dish on the table was a total new drop for them. the squad’s convo was mad lowkey. elizabeth was ready to spill tea whenever a gap popped up, but she was stuck between charlotte and miss de bourgh—the former vibing hard on lady catherine’s endless spiel while the latter straight ghosted all dinner. mrs. jenkinson was busy lowkey tracking how little miss de bourgh munched, practically pushing her to try another dish while worrying she might be off her game. maria was like, “nah fam, keep it zipped,” and the dudes just did their thing—eating and throwing compliments like it was their only job.

when the ladies bounced back to the drawing-room, there was basically nothing to do but soak in lady catherine’s nonstop rants, which she dished out without pause until the coffee drop hit—dropping her opinions on literally every subject like she was allergic to being contradicted. she dove into charlotte’s domestic deets in full-on nosy mode, laying down a ton of advice on how every little thing should be run; even schooling her on the proper care for her cows and poultry. elizabeth peeped that nothing was too petty for this legend to use as an excuse to dictate to others. in between her chats with mrs. collins, she lobbed a bunch of questions at maria and elizabeth—especially at the latter, whose fam tea was the least known—and, as mrs. collins noted, she was one genteel, pretty chill kind of girl. at various points she asked how many sisters elizabeth had, whether they were older or younger, if any were about to get hitched, whether they were total stunners, where they got their edu, what ride her dad rocked, and even what her mom’s pre-marriage name was. elizabeth caught all the extra shade in those questions but kept it super zen. then lady catherine clapped back with, 

“yo, so your dad’s estate is on mr. collins, i think? like, for your sake,” she said to charlotte, “and i’m lowkey glad about that; but honestly, i don’t see why estates need to be chained down through the female line. that wasn’t even a flex in sir lewis de bourgh’s fam. so, miss bennet, you into playing and singing?”

“a lil.”

“oh bet—someday we’ll be stoked to peep your skills. our instrument is straight fire, probably next level too—you gotta vibe with it sometime. and your sisters, do they jam as well?”

“one of them does.”

“why didn’t y’all learn? honestly, you all should be on it. the miss webbs are totally acing it, and their daddy’s income is a total flop compared to yours. you into drawing?”

“nah, not even a bit.”

“what, like none of you?”

“not a single one.”

“that’s mad sus. but i guess you never got the chance. your mom should’ve hauled you to town every spring to catch some master-level vibes.”

“my mom would be cool with it, but my dad lowkey hates london.”

“did your governess ghost on you?”

“we never even had a governess.”

“no governess?! like, how even? five daughters raised at home with zero governess—i’ve never peeped such a vibe. your mom must’ve been grinding hard on your edu.”

elizabeth couldn’t help but crack a smile as she replied, “nah, that wasn’t how it went.”

“then who schooled you? who was your ride-or-die educator? without a governess, you must’ve been totally left hangin’.”

“compared to some fams, i guess we were; but anyone who actually wanted to learn always got the hookup. we were always hyped to read, and had all the teachers you could need, while those cool with chillin’ could just do their own thing.”

“ay, no cap: that’s exactly why a governess would’ve stopped all that; and if i’d peeped your mom sooner, i’d’ve been all over getting her one. i always say nothing in education pops off without steady, regular schooling—and only a governess can drop that heat. it’s wild how many fams i’ve helped level up that way. i’m always stoked when a young one gets set for success. four nieces of mrs. jenkinson are living that dream through my hookup; and just the other day i casually recommended another young blood, who was randomly mentioned to me, and the fam is totally vibing with her. mrs. collins, did i mention that lady metcalfe hit me up yesterday to thank me? she straight up thinks miss pope is a treasure. ‘lady catherine,’ she said, ‘you just gifted me a treasure.’ so, miss bennet, are any of your younger sisters out there?”

“yes, ma’am, like literally all of them.”

“all? what, like all five at once? that’s kinda nuts! and you’re only the second out—the younger ones getting hitched before the elder? your younger sisters must be hella young then.”

“yeah, my littlest ain’t even sixteen. maybe she’s too young to be in the scene much. but fr, ma’am, it’d seriously be rough if younger sisters missed out on their share of society and fun just ‘cause the elder might be low on cash or just not into early marriage. the youngest has as much right to the pleasures of youth as the first. holding them back like that? i doubt it even builds that sisterly bond or refined vibe.”

“omg, on my word, you’re dropping opinions like a boss for someone so young. spill—what’s your age?”

“with three grown younger sisters, your ladyship can hardly expect me to drop that tea.”

lady catherine was totally shook at not getting a straight answer; and elizabeth figured she was probably the first ever to roast with that much regal impertinence.

“you can’t be more than twenty, i’m sure—so no need to hide your age.”

“i ain’t one-and-twenty.”

when the gentlemen rolled up and tea was done, the card tables got set up. lady catherine, sir william, and mr. and mrs. collins kicked it in a quadrille sesh; and since miss de bourgh chose to hit up cassino, the two girls got the honor of helping mrs. jenkinson round out her crew. their table was, like, ultra extra dumb—barely a syllable was dropped that wasn’t about the game, except when mrs. jenkinson started stressing over miss de bourgh being too hot or too cold, or if the vibe (read: light) was off. over at the other table, the tea and goss went down heavy. lady catherine was in full speaker mode—listing every oof move from the other three or dropping random bits of her own lore. mr. collins spent his time clapping along to everything lady catherine dropped, thanking her for every fish he snagged and apologizing whenever he thought he went overboard. sir william kept it chill, busy hoarding epic anecdotes and fancy noble names.

when lady catherine and her daughter played as long as they wanted, the tables got broken up, a carriage was offered to mrs. collins (which she, of course, totally accepted and ordered up immediately), and then the crew huddled around the fire to hear lady catherine drop the next-day weather deets. soon enough, the coach rolled up to summon them; and after a barrage of thank-yous from mr. collins and equal bows from sir william, they bounced. as soon as they dipped from the door, elizabeth’s cousin hit her up to get her take on all the rosings tea—which, for charlotte’s sake, she made sound way nicer than it really was. but no matter how much effort she dropped, her props could never satisfy mr. collins, and he ended up straight up claiming lady catherine’s praise as his own.

chapter xxx.

ir william only chilled at hunsford for a week, but it was long enough for him to peep that his daughter was straight up living her best life—with a husband and neighbour who were next-level rare finds. while sir william was around, mr. collins spent his mornings flexing his gig-driving skills with him, showing off the countryside; but once he bounced, the fam got back to their regular grind, and elizabeth was hella relieved they weren’t seeing her cousin as much anymore—‘cause between breakfast and dinner, he was either hustling in the garden, deep in his book room reading and writing, or just peeping out the window like he was on a solo influencer sesh.

the room where the ladies were chillin’ was, like, totally backwards. at first, elizabeth was kinda shook that charlotte wouldn’t use the dining parlour—the dining room was bigger and had a better vibe; but then she peeped that her girl had a solid reason for the move, since mr. collins would’ve been even more extra in his own pad if they sat in a room that was equally lively. so she gave charlotte mad props for the set-up.

from the drawing-room, they couldn’t peep a thing on the lane, so they were mad grateful to mr. collins for dropping deets on which carriages were rolling by—and especially on how often miss de bourgh cruised past in her phaeton (this dude never missed a beat, even though it went down almost every day). she would occasionally hit up the parsonage for a quick chat with charlotte, but hardly ever got roped into stepping out.

mr. collins was literally walking to rosings almost every day, and his wife was always down to tag along; until elizabeth was like, “why drop so many hours on this?” she couldn’t wrap her head around that sacrifice. every now and then, they got treated to a call from lady catherine, and nothing in the room was safe from her eagle-eye—she’d inspect their work, call out the furniture set-up, or even call out the maid for being a total noob; and if she grabbed any refreshment, it was clearly just to spill that mrs. collins’s meat chunks were way too extra for her fam.

elizabeth quickly peeped that even though this legendary lady wasn’t in the county’s commission of peace, she was the absolute boss magistrate in her own parish—with mr. collins dropping every tiny bit of tea to her. whenever any of the cottagers got all salty, bickering, or straight-up broke, lady catherine would roll through to squash the beef, shut down the complaints, and school them back into chill vibes and plenty.  
“he never failed to inform them”

the dine-and-chill at rosings went down about twice a week; and with sir william sometimes MIA and only one card table showing up in the evening, every dinner sesh was basically a rerun of the first. their other hangouts were few, since the neighbourhood’s whole vibe was way above the collinses’ paygrade. but honestly, that wasn’t a vibe kill for elizabeth; overall, she was living pretty comfy—catching half-hour chats with charlotte and enjoying weather so lit for the season that she got major outdoors flex. her fav stroll—and the one she usually hit when everyone else was off with lady catherine—was along an open grove edging that side of the park, with a chill little sheltered path that no one else seemed to care about, a zone where lady catherine’s nosiness couldn’t even reach her.

in this quiet mode, the first two weeks of her visit just slid by. easter was looming, and the week before it was gonna drop a new addition into the rosings fam—a massive flex in such a tight circle. elizabeth had caught on soon after arriving that mr. darcy was slated to roll through in a few weeks; and even though there were plenty of people she didn’t really vibe with, his coming would add a fresh face to the rosings parties, and she could totally kick back and get her laugh watching miss bingley’s hopeless attempts at him—especially given how he acted around his cousin, like it was totally pre-ordained by lady catherine, who couldn’t stop raving about his coming, speaking of him in the highest praise, and even throwing shade ‘cause he’d already been spotted a bunch by miss lucas and herself.

word on his arrival spread mad quick at the parsonage; mr. collins was strutting all morning in view of the lodges off hunsford lane, scooping up the earliest tea; and as the carriage dipped into the park, he bowed and hustled home with the scoop. the next morning, he rushed over to rosings to pay his respects. there were two nephews waiting for them since mr. darcy rolled in with colonel fitzwilliam, the younger son of his uncle, lord ——; and to everyone’s crazy surprise, when mr. collins bounced back, the dudes actually rolled with him. charlotte peeped them from her husband’s room as they crossed the road, and immediately dashed to tell the girls what mad honor they might be in, adding,  
“i may thank you, eliza, for this piece of civility. mr. darcy would never have come so soon to wait upon me.”

elizabeth barely had time to deny any claim to that hype before the doorbell announced their arrival, and shortly after, the three gentlemen strolled in. colonel fitzwilliam, leading the charge at about thirty—not exactly a total hottie but straight-up gentleman material—dropped his compliments to mrs. collins in that same cool, reserved way mr. darcy was known for. elizabeth simply shot him a polite nod, staying mum.

colonel fitzwilliam jumped straight into convo, all smooth and well-bred, chatting super pleasantly; yet his cousin, after throwing a subtle comment about the house and garden to mrs. collins, sat quiet for a minute. eventually, his manners kicked in enough to ask elizabeth about her fam’s health. she replied in her usual chill style; and after a brief pause, added,  
“my eldest sister’s been in town for like three months. have you never peeped her there?”

she totally got that he hadn’t; but she was lowkey fishing to see if he’d spill any tea about what went down between the bingleys and jane—and she noticed he looked a bit confused as he admitted he’d never been lucky enough to bump into miss bennet. that chat ended there, and the gentlemen bounced shortly after.

chapter xxxi.

olonel fitzwilliam’s manners were mad admired at the parsonage, and all the ladies were convinced he would bring serious spice to their rosings hangouts. though it took a few days before they even got an invite—since when there were guests at the pad he wasn’t needed—it wasn’t until easter day, almost a week after the dudes arrived, that they got the honor of being summoned on leaving church to swing by in the evening. for the past week, they’d hardly seen lady catherine or her daughter. colonel fitzwilliam popped by the parsonage more than once during that time, but mr. darcy? that dude only showed up at church.

of course, they accepted the invite, and at the proper hour they slid into the party in lady catherine’s drawing-room. her ladyship greeted them with all the formal civility, but it was clear their crew wasn’t as fire as when she had no one else around; in fact, she was almost completely engrossed with her nephews—especially darcy—chatting up them way more than anyone else.

colonel fitzwilliam looked genuinely stoked to see them: anything was a lit relief at rosings; plus, mrs. collins’s pretty friend had totally caught his eye. he scooted over to sit next to her and started dropping gems about kent and hertfordshire, traveling versus staying home, new books, and killer tunes—so smoothly that elizabeth had never been half as entertained in that room before; their convo was so on point it even snagged lady catherine’s and mr. darcy’s attention. his eyes kept glancing their way with mad curiosity; and after a minute, lady catherine couldn’t help but call out,  
“what’s that you spitting, fitzwilliam? break it down—what are you telling miss bennet? let me catch the tea.”

“we were talking about music, madam,” he said when he could no longer dodge.

“music, huh! then speak up loud. music is my ultimate jam—i gotta have my say if it’s on the menu. honestly, i bet hardly anyone in england vibes with music as hard as i do, with real natural taste. if i’d ever been schooled, i’d be a straight-up pro. and anne too, if her health hadn’t been a mess—i bet she’d totally slay it. so, how’s georgiana doing, darcy?”

mr. darcy then dropped some affectionate praise about his sister’s skills.

“i’m mega glad to hear such high-key vibes about her,” said lady catherine; “and tell her from me that she can’t expect to kill it unless she practices loads.”

“i assure you, madam,” he replied, “she doesn’t need any extra advice—she’s on that grind, no doubt.”

“awesome, then—you can never practice too much; and next time i drop her a line, i’ll tell her not to slack off at all. i always say no real excellence in music comes without constant hustle. i’ve told miss bennet a million times she’ll never really nail it unless she practices more; and even though mrs. collins doesn’t have an instrument, she’s totally invited—like, i’ve told her—to roll up to rosings every day and jam on the pianoforte in mrs. jenkinson’s room. she wouldn’t be in anybody’s way, trust.”

mr. darcy looked a bit embarrassed by his aunt’s trashy vibes and kept quiet.

when coffee wrapped up, colonel fitzwilliam reminded elizabeth of her promise to play for him; so she sat down right at the pianoforte. he pulled a chair up next to her. lady catherine peeped half a song, then went back to chatting with her other nephew, until he eventually bounced and—moving with his typical deliberate flair—slid over to the piano, positioning himself so he could get a full view of the gorgeous performer's face. elizabeth caught his move, and at the first chill pause she shot him a cheeky, arch smile and said,  
“yo, mr. darcy, you tryna spook me by rolling up all extra just to hear me play? but i ain’t gonna lose my cool, even if your sister does slap hard. i’ve got this stubborn streak that never lets anyone scare me—my courage only levels up every time someone tries to intimidate me.”

“i ain’t gonna say you’re trippin’,” he clapped back, “cuz like, you prolly know i ain’t schemin’ to freak you out; and i’ve been vibin’ with you long enough to peep that you lowkey get major kicks from droppin’ opinions that aren’t even your own.”

elizabeth cracked up hella hard at that self roast and shot over to colonel fitzwilliam, “yo, your cuz is gonna drop the real tea on me and school you not to buy any clickbait i spill. i’m seriously unlucky to run into someone who can flex my true vibe, especially in a scene where i was tryna keep it on fleek. for real, mr. darcy, it’s mad uncool of you to spill all that dirt about me in hertfordshire—and, not gonna lie, super off-brand too—for it’s got me ready to clap back, and trust, your fam would get shook if they caught wind of it.”

“i ain’t even shook by you,” he flexed with a smile.

“bet, spill the tea on what you’re bashin’ him for,” hollered colonel fitzwilliam, “i wanna know how he vibes with randos.”

“aight, get ready, cuz this tea is brutal. so, the very first time i peeped him in hertfordshire, i gotta say, was at a ball—and can you even guess what he did? he dropped only four dances! no cap, i’m sorry to drop this L on you, but that’s the vibe. he did only four dances, even though there were mad fewer gents; and, i’m 100% sure, more than one queen was sitting there waitin’ for a partner. mr. darcy, you can’t front this fact.”

“yo, i straight up didn’t know any other queens in that room outside my own squad.”

“facts; and like, you can’t just slide into someone’s dm in a ball. so, colonel fitzwilliam, what do i drop next? my digits are chillin’ for your command.”

“maybe,” said darcy, “i should’ve done my homework and hit up an intro, but honestly, i ain’t built to self-hype to randos.”

“yo, how ‘bout we ask your cuz why he’s rockin’ that sus behavior?” said elizabeth, still chattin’ up colonel fitzwilliam. “like, how’s it that a dude with brains and major world cred is so extra at promoting himself to strangers?”

“i gotchu,” said fitzwilliam, “no need to hit him up. it’s cuz he ain’t tryna put in the work for himself.”

“fr, i def don’t have that clout some peeps got,” admitted darcy, “chattin’ up folks i’ve never peeped before. i just can’t catch their wavelength or fake that interest like everyone else does.”

“my digits,” said elizabeth, “aren’t out here jamming on this instrument like a pro, like i see so many ladies flexin’. they don’t have that same snap or speed, and they don’t hit that same expression. but obvi, i always figured it was on me—since i’d never put in the grind. it ain’t that i don’t believe my fingers can slay as hard as any other woman’s.”

darcy grinned and deadass said, “you midaf, you nailed it. you spent your time hella wisely. nobody ever got the privilege of hearing you leave thoughts on read. honestly, neither of us is here performin’ for randos.”

and boom, lady catherine crashed in, callin’ out, “yo, what’s the tea?” so elizabeth immediately jumped back on the keys. lady catherine slid up, eavesdroppin’ for a hot sec, and then said to darcy,—

“miss bennet would be on point if she practiced more, and if she had a lit london maestro. her finger game is legit, though it ain’t as fire as anne’s. anne would’ve been a total banger on stage, if her vibes had let her master that art.”

elizabeth peeped at darcy to scope his reaction to his cuz’s props; but, fr, neither then nor ever did she catch any heart-eyes; and from his whole vibe toward miss de bourgh, she lowkey consoled miss bingley that he could’ve been just as down to marry her if she were fam.

lady catherine kept droppin’ feedback on elizabeth’s jam session, mixin’ in a load of tips on technique and taste. elizabeth took it all with mad civility; and at the guys’ request, she stuck around on the keys till her lady’s whip was ready to yeet them all home.{221}

chapter xxxii.

elizabeth was chillin’ solo the next morn, scribblin’ a note to jane while mrs. collins and maria were off on a biz run in the village, when suddenly a door ring popped off—the surefire signal of a visitor. since there were no ride noises bumpin’ outside, she figured it was probably lady catherine; and with that vibe, she was puttin’ away her half-finished letter to dodge extra tea, when the door busted open and, for real, mr. darcy—mr. darcy only—rolled right in.

he looked hella shocked to find her flyin’ solo, and immediately dropped an apology for crashing her vibe, sayin’ he thought all the gals were in the crib.

they parked themselves, and when she started askin’ about rosings, it got so sus silent that the convo was about to ghost. so, def, she had to cook up something; and in that chaotic moment, recalling the last time she peeped him in hertfordshire and lowkey dying to know why y’all dipped so fast, she dropped,—

“yo, mr. darcy, y’all bounced from netherfield hella sudden last november! bet mr. bingley caught the sweetest surprise seein’ you all chasin’ him so quick; like, if my memory serves right, he dipped just the day before. hope he and his sis squad were gucci when you bailed from london?”

“fr, all good, thanks for checkin’,” he replied.

she peeped that he was straight-up ghostin’ the convo; and after a mini pause, she hit,—

“lowkey, i got the feel that mr. bingley ain’t even tryna make a comeback to netherfield, yeah?”

“ain’t heard him drop that tea; but probs he’s gonna ghost netherfield most days. dude’s got a squad for days and his friend count is forever risin’.”

“if he’s only lowkey at netherfield, fr, it’d be chill for the block if he yeeted the place, so maybe a solid fam could pop up. but, like, maybe mr. bingley snagged the crib more for his own flex than for the neighborhood vibes, so we gotta expect him to keep or ditch it on his own playbook.”

“i wouldn’t even be shook,” said darcy, “if he yeeted it the moment some eligible buyer slides in.”

elizabeth clammed up—didn’t wanna drop more deets on his mate; and with zero extra tea to add, she was like done with the convo hustle.

he picked up the vibe and dropped, “this house is mad cozy. lady catherine, no cap, put in a ton of work when mr. collins first rolled up to hunsford.”

“deadass, she did—and i’m sure she wouldn’t dish out that kind of kindness on someone less deserving.”

“mr. collins is mad lucky for snagging his choice of a wifey.”

“oh fr, for real; his crew must be vibin’ that he locked in one of the few real ones who’d give him a chance, or at least make him glow if they could. my friend’s got straight-up brain—even though i lowkey ain’t convinced that her mashing up with mr. collins was the peak move. but she’s hella content; and lookin’ at it smart, it’s def a solid match for her.”

“i bet it’s super lit for her to be chillin’ so close to her fam and besties.”

“an easy distance? bro, that’s like straight up fifty miles.”

“and fifty miles on a lit road? that’s barely half a day’s flex. yup, i say it’s mad easy.”

“i never would've peeped distance as a match perk,” cried elizabeth, “i would’ve never dropped that mrs. collins was settled near her fam.”

“it’s lowkey proof you’re extra attached to hertfordshire. anything past the vibe of longbourn is just too extra, i guess.”

as he chatted, there was this subtle smirk that elizabeth totally thought she got; like, he was probin’ that she was daydreamin’ about jane and netherfield, and she got all red as she clapped back,—

“look, i’m not throwin’ shade sayin’ a woman can’t be hella close to her fam. near and far is all relative, and depends on a bunch of vibes. when you’ve got the coin to make travel a non-issue, distance ain’t even a thing. but, fr, that ain’t the tea here. mr. and mrs. collins pull in a decent stipend, but not one that lets ‘em dip out on frequent trips—and i’m lowkey thinkin’ my friend wouldn’t even tag her fam if the gap was less than half of what it is now.”

mr. darcy slid his chair up closer and dead-set said, “yo, you ain’t got the right to be so extra attached locally. like, you couldn’t have been chillin’ at longbourn 24/7.”

elizabeth got all wide-eyed. the dude’s mood totally shifted; he pulled his chair back, snatched a newspaper off the table, skimmed it, and in a frosty tone hit,—

“you vibin’ with kent?”

a quick chit-chat about the countryside went down, both sides keepin’ it chill and short, until charlotte and her sis rolled in, fresh from their walk. the private chat totally caught them off guard. mr. darcy then spilled the tea on why he crashed miss bennet’s scene and, after chillin’ a few more minutes without droppin’ extra, yeeted out.

“accompanied by their aunt”
[copyright 1894 by george allen.]
{226}

“what’s the tea here?” said charlotte, as soon as he bounced. “my dear eliza, he def must be lowkey in love with you, cuz he wouldn’t ever roll up on us this cozy if he wasn’t.”

but when elizabeth dropped the deets on his ghost mode, it didn’t seem too lit—even by charlotte’s wishful vibes—to be the case; and after a bunch of guesses, they finally figured his pop-in was just ‘cause he was straight-up bored, which makes sense at this time of year. all the field sports were DONE. inside, you got lady catherine, books, and a billiard table, but dudes can’t just be cooped indoors all the time; and around the parsonage, or simply vibin’ on the walk to it, or chillin’ with the peeps who lived there, the two cousins caught major FOMO and ended up strollin’ over almost every day. they popped by at random am times, sometimes solo, sometimes as a duo, and occasionally with their aunt. it was clear as day that colonel fitzwilliam was all about their company—which only boosted his rep further; and elizabeth was lowkey reminded of her old fave, george wickham, 'cause hangin’ with him sparked mad feels, even though when she peeped both, colonel fitzwilliam’s charm wasn’t as soft and captivating—but she still figured he might have the sharpest mind.

but why mr. darcy kept poppin’ up at the parsonage was a major head-scratcher. it wasn’t for the squad vibes, since he’d sit for ten minutes straight without droppin’ a word; and when he did chat, it was like, forced tbh—a sacrifice to social decorum, not a chill moment for him. he rarely lit up with true hype. mrs. collins had no clue what to do with him. colonel fitzwilliam’s random lol moments at his dumbness showed he was on a different level—stuff that even his usual rep couldn’t spill; and since mrs. collins was lowkey wishin’ this change was all about love (and that love being for her buddy eliza), she got super serious and started snoopin’ to decode his vibe: watching him at rosings and whenever he rolled into hunsford, but, no cap, she got zero success. he totally eyed her friend hard, but his stare was kinda sus. it was all earnest and persistently fixed, but she kept wonderin’ if it even carried any admiration or was just him zoned out.

she had lowkey hinted to elizabeth once or twice that he might be crushin’ on her, but elizabeth straight-up rofl’d at that notion; and mrs. collins wasn’t tryna push it, cuz that could hype up expectations that’d just end in a major flop—‘cause in her book, there’s zero doubt that if eliza could hold the power, all the extra drama would just vanish.

in her sweet plans for elizabeth, mrs. collins even schemed about her hookin’ up with colonel fitzwilliam. dude was, hands down, the chillest man ever: he totally had mad admiration for her and his status was on fleek; but to level the field, mr. darcy had huge clout in the church while his cuz was left hangin’.

on looking up.

chapter xxxiii.

more than once, elizabeth, while vibin’ on a park stroll, unexpectedly bumped into mr. darcy. she def felt the burn of fate bringin’ him to spots where no one else even slid; and to avoid a repeat of that sus deja vu, she made sure to let him know right off that the park was her ultimate chill zone. so, it was hella weird when it happened a second time—and even a third! it was like intentional bad juju or voluntary penance; ‘cause these times weren’t just a couple of awkward check-ins before one dipped, but he straight-up had to double back and pace with her. he never dropped much tea, and she didn’t waste energy chattin’ or even listenin’ much; but by their third hang, she peeped that he was droppin’ some offbeat, random questions—askin’ about how much he digs bein’ at hunsford, his love for solo strolls, and his take on mr. and mrs. collins’s overall vibe; and when he dished on rosings and her not totally catchin’ the house deets, it came off like he expected her to crash in kent if she ever slid that way again. his words kinda spelled it out. could it be he had colonel fitzwilliam on his mind? she figured, if he meant anything, it had to be a subtle shout-out to what might be poppin’ off in that zone. that lowkey stressed her, and she was seriously relieved to spot herself at the gate in the pales right across from the parsonage.

one day, while strollin’ and re-readin’ jane’s latest letter—mullin’ over some lines that showed jane wasn’t exactly in a bomb mood—she wasn’t shocked to see another mr. darcy moment; instead, lookin’ up, she peeped colonel fitzwilliam on her path. tucking the letter away pronto and forcing a big-ass grin, she shot out,—

“yo, i didn’t even know you cruised this route before.”

“i been on that park tour,” he fired back, “like i do it yearly and planned to cap it off with a stop at the parsonage. you headin’ much further?”

“nah, i was gonna dip in a sec.”

so she flipped and they strolled toward the parsonage together.

“you for real bouncin’ from kent on saturday?” she asked.

“yup—if darcy doesn’t ghost on it again. but i’m on his speed dial; he runs the show his way.”

“and if he can’t nail that arrangement, at least he gets major kicks from having total choice. fr, i don’t know anyone who’s more about doin’ things his own way than mr. darcy.”

“he’s all about havin’ his way,” replied colonel fitzwilliam. “but same with all of us. it’s just that he’s got the clout—he’s loaded, while most are strugglin’. i’m speakin’ from the heart. a younger son, ya know, gotta be used to sacrificin’ and dependin’ on others.”

“in my opinion, a younger son of an earl has probably never really felt either. but real talk, when was money ever the chain that stopped you from cruisin’ anywhere or snaggin’ whatever you fancied?”

“hey, these are home turf questions—and maybe i haven’t been through a ton of those struggles. but when it comes to the heavy stuff, i might just catch some L’s from bein’ low on coin. younger sons can’t just marry any way they wanna.”

“unless they’re after rich queens, which, fr, i think they hella do.”

“our spendy vibes make us hella dependent, and not many in my scene can drop a wedding without peepin’ some serious coin.”

“is this meant for me?” thought elizabeth, her cheeks poppin’ at the thought; but shakin’ it off, she fired back in a spunky tone, “and yo, what’s the usual price tag on an earl’s younger son? unless the big bro’s mad sickly, i bet you wouldn’t charge more than like, fifty grand.”

he shot back in the same drip, and just like that, the topic was yeeted. to break a silence that might’ve made him think she was extra about the previous tea, she soon added,{231}—

“i bet your cuz dragged you down mainly so he’d have someone on deck. i’m lowkey wonderin’ why he hasn’t married yet to lock in that convenience. but maybe his sis is ridin’ that wave for now; and since she’s totally under his watch, he can do his own thing.”

“nah,” said colonel fitzwilliam, “that’s a perk he’s gotta split with me. i’m in joint guardianship with him over miss darcy.”

“for real? so spill, what kinda guardian are you? does your charge cause you drama? gals at her age can be kinda wild; and if she’s got that true darcy energy, she might just wanna roll on her own terms.”

as she spilled the tea, she noticed him starin’ at her real earnestly; and the way he straight up asked why she thought miss darcy might give them any stress had her thinkin’ she was on the brink of the truth. she clapped back,—

“no cap, don’t get shook. i’ve never heard any bad vibes about her; and honestly, i dare say she’s one of the chillest peeps out there. she’s a total fave with some of my crew—mrs. hurst and miss bingley. i think you mentioned you knew ‘em?”

“yeah, i know ‘em a bit. their bro is a dope, proper dude—def a ride-or-die pal of darcy’s.”

“oh fr fr,” said elizabeth dryly, “mr. darcy is mad kind to mr. bingley, and he seriously looks out for him, on another level.”

“take care of him! yup, i def believe darcy covers him in all the spots where bingley needs that backup most. from some tea he dropped on our journey here, i got the vibe that bingley’s hella in his debt. but yo, i should say sorry, cuz i ain’t got the right to assume bingley’s the one. it was all just lowkey conjecture.”

“so, what you tryna say?”

“it’s that thing darcy definitely wouldn’t wanna leak ‘round town—cuz if word got back to the lady’s fam, it’d be mad awkward.”

“bet, i gotchu—i won’t spill a word.”

“and remember, i ain’t really think it’s bingley. he just said he was hyped about saving a buddy from a totally reckless marriage move, without droppin’ any names; and i only pegged it as bingley ‘cause i figured he’s the type to get into that mess, plus they were tight all last summer.”

“did mr. darcy even drop his reasons for buttin’ in?”

“i got that there were some mega objections against the lady.”

“and what moves did he pull to split ‘em apart?”

“he didn’t drop any deets about his own plays,” said fitzwilliam with a smile. “he just hit me with the same tea i just dropped on you.”

elizabeth clammed up and kept on walkin’, her heart buzzin’ with indignation. after peepin’ her for a bit, fitzwilliam asked, “yo, why you lookin’ so deep in thought?”

“i'm thinkin’ bout all that tea you been droppin’, fr fr,” she said, all nonchalant. “your cuz’s antics are totally off my vibe. like, how did he even get to play judge?”

“so u tryna say his extra meddlin’ is hella sus?”

“i don’t even get how mr. darcy thought he had any right to decide if his bro’s vibe was on fleek or not; or why, on his own savage terms, he got to flex and dictate how that dude should be happy. but,” she went on, catching her chill, “since we don’t got all the deets, it ain’t cool to roast him too hard. honestly, it don’t even seem like there was that much heart in the sitch.”

“that’s a pretty legit take,” quipped fitzwilliam, “but fr, it’s lowkey trashin’ the honor of my cuz’s win.”

even tho he was jokin’, to her it was the perfect mr. darcy meme, so much so that she couldn’t even serve a comeback; and, straight up switchin’ the convo, she vibed about random stuff till they hit the parsonage. once they dipped, and as soon as their visitor bounced, she locked herself in her room so she could process all that hot tea uninterrupted. it was obvious she was only dishing on those peeps in her own squad; there’s literally no way there could be two dudes in the world that mr. darcy could have that much clout over. sure, she never doubted he was lowkey involved in the moves to split up mr. bingley and jane, but she always blamed miss bingley as the mastermind behind that whole drama. if his big ego wasn’t glitching his vision, then he was straight-up responsible—his pride and random caprices were the reason for everything jane went through, and still is. he pretty much ghosted every chance at happiness for the dopest, kindest soul ever; and nobody could really say how epic the burn he inflicted might turn out to be.

“there was hella beef against the lady,” declared colonel fitzwilliam, and tbh, that beef was real—she’s got one uncle who’s a country attorney and another hustlin’ in london, so the shade wasn’t just for show.

“regarding jane herself,” she exploded, “there’s zero chance anyone could throw shade at her—she’s all loveliness and pure goodness! her smarts are on point, her mind is totally upgraded, and her manners are straight-up captivating. and don’t even get me started on my dad—though he’s got his quirks, he’s got some mad skills that even mr. darcy wouldn’t diss, and a rep he’ll probs never reach.” when she thought of her mom, her confidence dipped just a bit; but she wasn’t about to let any tea about her mom count with mr. darcy. she was deadass convinced that his extra pride would take a bigger L from his bro’s weak clout than from any dumbness, and she was totally sure that he was partly run by that cringe pride and partly by his wish to keep mr. bingley all to himself for his sis.

the whole convo had her in a major head-spin, and the cry sessions that followed gave her a wicked headache; by evening, between her zero desire to even glance at mr. darcy and that pounding headache, she decided to ghost her cousins at rosings, where they were supposed to sip tea. mrs. collins peeped that she was legit off and didn’t push her to go, even lowkey blockin’ her hubby from hasslin’ her; but mr. collins? he couldn’t hide his worry that lady catherine would catch major vibes if she stayed home.

chapter xxxiv.

once they bounced, elizabeth—determined to aggravate mr. darcy as hard as possible—decided to deep dive into all the letters jane slid her ever since she landed in kent. none of 'em dropped any real complaints or brought old drama back, nor did they rave about any fresh suffering. but every single line was missing that signature happy energy she usually rocked—the chill, one-with-the-vibes mood that almost never ever got clouded. elizabeth peeped every single sentence hintin’ at off feels, giving them way more attention than she did the first time around. mr. darcy’s cringe brag about how much misery he dished out only made her even more aware of how hard jane was gettin’ hit. it was lowkey comforting knowing his rosings cameo would wrap up the day after tomorrow, and even more hype that in less than two weeks she’d be back with jane, ready to help vibe her back to solid feels.

she couldn’t even think about darcy bouncin’ from kent without remembering that his cuz was meant to roll with him; but colonel fitzwilliam made it crystal clear that he wasn’t tryna dip at all, and as much as she was down for his company, she wasn’t about to get low over that.

while she was sortin’ that sitch, the doorbell rang, and her heart did a lil’ flip, thinkin’ it might be colonel fitzwilliam again—who had once popped by late and might now slide in to check on her. but that thought got yeeted fast when, to her total shock, mr. darcy strolled right into her room. like, he rushed over askin’ if she was doin’ alright, all casual-like, sayin’ his drop-by was just 'cause he wanted to hear that she was feeling better. she clapped back with some seriously icy civility. he sat for a hot minute, then got up and started wanderin’ around the room. elizabeth was totally shook, but kept it all mute. after a few long, awkward minutes of dead silence, he stormed up to her, all agitated, and started off:

“in vain have i struggled. it will not do. my feelings will not be repressed. you must allow me to tell you how ardently i admire and love you.”

elizabeth was shook af—her eyes were wide, she blushed hard, and she was straight-up silent, caught in that stunned moment. he took that as all the encouragement he needed and unloaded every bit of tea he’d been holdin’ down about his longtime feels. he talked pretty smooth, but besides all that heart talk, he went off on how he figured she was on a lower level—roasting her for being, like, a downgrade with all those family hang-ups that logic always clashed with his desires. his intense rant, meant to score points, was anything but convincing.

even though she was super over him, she couldn’t fully ignore the fact that a dude like him was actually droppin’ compliments, and even though she was totally set on rejecting him, for a hot sec she felt a twinge of pity for the hurt he was about to take—until his next words lit a fuse of anger that crushed all that soft feels. she tried hard to keep her cool so she could eventually serve a patient clapback, but he wasn’t givin’ her a chance. he wrapped up by flexin’ how his deep attachment was just too strong to battle, and that he was expectin’ her to end it by sayin’ yes to his proposal. as he spilled all that tea, it was plain he was bankin’ on a yes. he even mentioned his anxiety while his face looked all chill and secure—only makin’ her more irate; and when he stopped, her cheeks flamed up as she fired back:

“in cases like this, i believe it’s just the norm to feel a sense of obligation for the vibes you just dropped, even if they ain’t fully returned. it’s only natural to feel that, and if i could be grateful, i’d totally thank you right now. but i can’t—i never was after your approval, and u definitely dished it out on the low, not willingly at all. i’m sorry if i put anyone through pain. it all went down unconsciously, and i hope it’s a short-lived mess. the feels you say have held you back from showin’ your true regard? they should bounce back easy after this little chat.”

mr. darcy, leanin’ against the mantel with his eyes glued to her face, caught her clapback with a mix of shock and straight-up resentment. his face went all ghostly with rage, and every single feature screamed inner turmoil. he was tryna look all cool and collected, and wouldn’t even speak until he thought he’d nailed that composure. that silence? total mood killer for elizabeth. finally, in a voice that was fake chill AF, he said:

“and this is all the reply which i am to have the honour of expecting! i might, perhaps, wish to be informed why, with so little endeavour at civility, i am thus rejected. but it is of small importance.”

“i might as well ask,” she shot back, “why, with such an obvious plan to offend and insult me, did u choose to say that u liked me—like, against your will, against your reason, and even against your own character? isn’t that kinda a lame excuse for bein’ incivil if i was, too? but i got other receipts, u know. if my own feels weren’t already dead set against u—even if they were neutral or a bit lit—do u really think anything could make me swipe right on the dude who’s been the main cause of wreckin’, maybe forever, the happiness of my most beloved sis?”

as she dropped these truth bombs, mr. darcy’s face did a total color change; but the outburst was short-lived, and he sat there, not even tryin’ to cut her off as she kept goin’,

“i have every reason in the world to think ill of you. no excuse can cover up the shady, ungenerous move u pulled there. u can’t deny that u were the main, if not the only, way to split them up—exposing one to the world’s harsh roast for being all extra and unstable, and the other to epic ridicule for crushed hopes, draggin’ both into next-level misery.”

she paused, starin’ with righteous indignation as she saw he was sittin’ there, totally unmoved by any hint of regret—he even shot her a smile that was all fake incredulity.

“can u not deny that u did it?” she prodded.

keeping his phony chill, he replied, “i ain’t gonna lie; i did everythin’ i could to split my friend from your sis, and i lowkey rejoice in that win. for him, i dished out more kindness than i did for myself.”

elizabeth rolled her eyes at that extra politeness but caught the drift—this wasn’t gonna win her over.

“but it ain’t just this one mess that got me heated,” she continued. “like, way before any of this went down, my opinion of you was totally sealed. your character got spilled in that tea i got from mr. wickham months ago. so, what you got to say in your defense? what kinda imaginary act of friendship can u throw out now? or what bogus spin are u trying to force on everyone?”

“u’re super extra in followin’ that gentleman’s drama,” mr. darcy snapped, his tone turning less chill and his face gettin’ even redder.

“if u know the level of his misfortunes, who wouldn’t feel some interest in him?”

“his misfortunes!” mr. darcy repeated, dripping with disdain, “yeah, his misfortunes were hella real.”

“and as for what u did!” cried elizabeth, full of energy, “u dragged him down to this state of kinda poverty—like, not even stacking serious coins. u withheld the moves and assists that were clearly meant for him. u robbed him of the best years of his life—stealin’ the independence he totally deserved. u did all that, and yet u treat his misfortunes like some lame meme to be mocked!”

“and this,” mr. darcy yelled, strutting quick steps across the room, “is your take on me! this is how u rate me! thanks for layin’ it all out. according to your math, my faults are hella massive. but, maybe,” he paused and spun to face her, “maybe these moves could’ve been overlooked if your pride hadn’t been wounded by my honest confession of the struggles that kept me from makin’ any real play. these bitter accusations might’ve been squashed if i’d, like, been slicker and hidden my inner battle—if i’d buttered you up so u’d think i was driven by pure, unfiltered vibes; by reason, by thought, by everything. but i lowkey hate any sorta disguise. i’m not even ashamed of what i said. it was natural and straight-up just. could u really expect me to be hyped about the fact that your fam is, like, so low-tier? to congratulate myself over the hope of relations whose status is, well, way beneath mine?”

elizabeth felt her anger surge with every word, but she fought to keep it cool as she said:

“mr. darcy, u got it twisted if u think your whole confession hit me any better than it would’ve if u’d been a proper gent. it just spared me from havin’ to stress over rejectin’ u in a more gentlemanlike way.”

she saw him get all wide-eyed at that, but he kept mute, so she continued:

“u could never have slid your proposal in any way that would've tempted me to say yes.”

again, his shock was obvious—he stared with a mix of incredulity and total mortification. she went on:

“from day one, from the very first moment i met u, your whole vibe—your total arrogance, conceit, and that extra selfish disregard for everyone else’s feels—built the foundation of a disapproval that only grew. i hadn't even known u for a month before i was like, 'dude, u’re the last man in the world i’d ever consider marrying.'”

“you’ve said enough, madam. i totally get your feels, and now i’m just gonna be embarrassed by mine. forgive me for takin’ up so much of your time, and accept my best wishes for your health and happiness.”

with that, he yeeted out of the room, and elizabeth heard him swing open the front door and dip out of the house. her brain was in total chaos—she didn’t know how to hold herself together, and legit, from pure weakness, she sat down and bawled for like half an hour. the more she rehashed what happened, the more shocked she got. like, getting a marriage proposal from mr. darcy! that dude had been lowkey in love with her for mad months! so extra in love that he was ready to marry her even though all the shade he threw by stoppin’ his friend from marrying her sis—and that same level of shade clearly hangin’ over his own biz—was almost unreal! it felt kinda good to know she inspired such intense feels, even if it was all accidental. but then his pride—his extra cringe, abominable pride—and his shameless flex about what he did regarding jane, his unpardonable certainty even though he couldn’t justify it, and the cold way he mentioned mr. wickham (whom he didn’t even try to deny bein’ cruel to) completely crushed the tiny pity she’d had from all his lovey vibes.

she kept spiraling in her agitated thoughts until the sound of lady catherine’s carriage slammed the realization that she wasn’t about to handle charlotte’s gossip—and she high-tailed it back to her room.

“hearing herself called.”

chapter xxxv.

lizabeth woke up the next morn still reeling with the same deep thoughts that had kept her up all night. she couldn’t shake the shock of what went down; it was literally all she could think about; and, totally unmotivated for any work, she decided right after breakfast to get some fresh air and move her body. she was about to hit up her fave stroll when the thought of mr. darcy occasionally poppin’ up there stopped her, so instead of steppin’ into the park, she flipped onto a lane that took her further from the main road.

the park fence was still chillin’ on one side, and she soon cruised through one of the gates into the grounds.

after a few rounds along that part of the lane, the dope morning vibes tempted her to pause at the gate and peep the park. the five weeks she’d spent in kent had totally leveled up the countryside—every day adding fresh green drip to the trees. just as she was about to continue her walk, she spotted a dude in the grove lining the park; he was movin’ in her direction; and freaked out thinkin’ it might be mr. darcy, she straight-up dipped. but the dude got close enough to see her, and steppin’ up with mad eagerness, he called out her name. she’d already turned away; but when she heard her name—in that unmistakable mr. darcy tone—she quickly turned back toward the gate. by that time, he was already there; and holdin’ out a letter (which she snatched instinctively), he said with that haughty, chill composure, “i've been cruisin’ the grove for a minute, hopin’ to catch you. will you do me the honour of readin’ this letter?” then, with a slight bow, he dipped back into the plantation and was outta sight in a flash.

not expectin’ any good vibes but totally curious, elizabeth cracked open the letter, and to her growing amazement, she found an envelope stuffed with two sheets of letter paper, written all over in a super tight hand. the envelope was packed too. as she kept cruisin’ along the lane, she started readin’ it. it was dated from rosings at eight o’clock in the morn, and went like this:

“yo, don’t get all tripped up readin’ this, madam, thinkin’ it’s a reboot of that cringey drama or another lame offer like last night’s sus vibes. i’m writin’ this not to hurt you or humble myself by rehashin’ old wishes that, for the sake of both our happiness, should’ve been left in the dust; and honestly, the energy it took to whip up and read this letter shoulda been spared, but my realness demanded it. so, please pardon the freedom i’m takin’ by demandin’ your full attention; i know your feels might be like, “nah,” but i’m countin’ on your sense of justice.”

“two offenses that were, like, totally different levels and not even in the same league, you totally dropped on me last night. the first one being that, no matter what anyone felt, i straight up yeeted mr. bingley away from your sis – and the second, that i went full savage, ignoring all the basic claims, honor, and straight-up humanity to wreck mr. wickham’s immediate glow-up and roast his future prospects. trying on purpose to ghost the ride-or-die of my youth – the certified fave of my dad, a dude who barely had any backup besides our squad’s support and was raised to expect that energy – would be some next-level depravity that breaking up two peeps, whose vibe might’ve only been growing for a hot minute, just can’t compare to. but fr, given all the heavy shade you dished out last night on every deet, i’m hoping that once you digest this full rundown of my moves and motives, you’ll be chill with my side of the tea. if, in dropping this explanation, i gotta spill some feels that might harsh your vibe, i’m sorry – not sorry, but like, my bad if it hurts. rules are rules, and further apologizing would be mega extra.

i wasn’t long in hertfordshire before i peeped – like, along with everyone else – that bingley was lowkey all about your big sis over any other girl in the country. but it wasn’t until that lit night at netherfield’s dance that i caught on he was catching some serious feels. i had peeped him in full love mode before, but while i was vibing on the dance floor with you, sir william lucas accidentally dropped the tea that bingley’s flexing on your sister had sparked a whole squad-level buzz about them getting hitched. he was talkin’ it up like it was a solid event, with only time as the only player who could decide the drop. from that moment, i stalked his every move, and i could totally tell that his extra affection for miss bennet was off the charts – way beyond any previous vibe i’d seen. i kept tabs on your sis too. her look and manners were open, sunny, and hella engaging, but zero indicators of any special heart-eye energy; i was convinced, after lowkey scrutinizing her all night, that even though she enjoyed his attention, she never slid into his feels. if you ain’t vibing with what i’m sayin’, then maybe i’m off – but honestly, you know your sis better than anyone. and if my misread led to hurting her, then your rage is 100% legit.

no cap, i gotta say, your sister’s chill AF aura would tell any real one that, however kind she is, her heart isn’t just gonna yeet itself into a hookup without serious thought. i was all in on believing she was indifferent – and i say that with straight-up impersonal fact, not just wishful thinking. my beef with that union wasn’t just the same kind of mess i admitted last night needed all the passion i could muster to set aside in my own sitch; the lack of solid connection was way more toxic for my bro than for me. but there were, fr, other shady vibes – reasons that, although equally present in both cases, i tried to ghost ‘cause they weren’t right in front of me. still, i gotta spill these deets, even if it’s just the highlights.

the sitch of your mom’s fam, while kinda sus, was nothing next to the epic lack of propriety that you, your three younger sisters, and sometimes even your dad, were dishing out on the daily – pardon me, but it seriously pains me to roast you. yet, amidst all your beef about your closest peeps’ flaws and your disgust with this representation of them, take heart knowing that acting so smart as to dodge that same criticism earns you mad props and clutch honors for you and your eldest sis.

furthermore, all that went down that night only confirmed my take on everyone and amped up every red flag that previously had me trying to save my bro from what i saw as a tragic hookup. he yeeted out of netherfield for london the very next day – you definitely remember – planning on bouncing back soon. now, here’s where i break down my own moves.

his sisters were equally stressed out, and our synced feels became obvious fast; realizing that no time should be wasted in pulling their bro away, we quickly decided to roll with him straight to london. so we dipped out – and there, i totally slid into the role of spitting out to my bro all the real downsides of that choice. i broke it down, no cap, with all the serious energy. even if my lecture might’ve slowed him for a minute, i doubt it would have stopped the wedding if i hadn’t also dropped the firm fact that your sis was, like, totally indifferent. he used to think she returned his vibes, even if not on a one-to-one basis, but bingley is naturally humble and trusts my judgment more than his own. so schooling him on the fact that he was lowkey sleepwalking into a trap was an absolute breeze – convincing him not to dip back into hertfordshire after that revelation took, like, literally a moment.

i can’t even bash myself for doing all that right. there’s just one part of my game i don’t vibe with: i lowkey adopted some sneaky artful moves to hide from him that your sis was actually in town. i knew it, miss bingley knew it, but her bro is still out here clueless. maybe they could’ve slided into each other without drama, but his vibe wasn’t low enough to risk seeing her and catching extra heat. maybe sneaking that info was beneath me – but it’s done, and honestly, it was for the best. on that note, i’ve nothing more to add, no extra apologies. if i hurt your sis’s feels, it was totally unintentional; and even if my motives seem weak to you, i’m not out here about to diss them.

regarding that heavier shade of having messed up mr. wickham – i can only shut that down by serving you the full scoop on his ties to my fam. i honestly don’t know exactly which part he’s throwing at me, but for the truth of my story, i got more than one witness with straight-up receipts. mr. wickham is the son of a super-respected dude who handled all the pemberley estates for years, and his flawless rep in doing his trust job naturally got my dad on board to help him out; and as for george wickham, his godson, my dad generously dished out kindness left and right. my dad backed him through school and cambridge – a major assist, since his own pop, always broke from his wife’s extra spending, couldn’t have afforded him a proper gentleman’s education. my dad wasn’t just vibing with this kid’s company – his charm was next level – he also had the highest regard for him and even hoped the church would be his future gig, planning to set him up accordingly.

as for me, it’s been mad years since i started seeing him in a whole different light. his shady habits and lack of backbone – the stuff he made sure his best bro never peeped – didn’t escape someone nearly his age (yours truly) who caught him slipping when mr. darcy was too busy playing it cool. here, brace yourself for more tea that might sting, but only you know how extra it is. whatever vibes mr. wickham’s spinning, i’m not gonna stop to hide his true character – which gives me even more reasons to be real. my amazing dad dipped about five years ago; and his ride-or-die loyalty to mr. wickham was so solid that in his will, he straight up told me to boost wickham’s hustle in the church as hard as his line of work could, and if wickham ever went priest mode, he wanted him snagging a top-notch family living as soon as it popped. there was also a legacy of one thousand pounds up for grabs. his own pops didn’t stick around long after mine; and like within six months of all that, mr. wickham hit me up saying that, having bailed on priesthood for good, he was expecting some instant cash in lieu of the slow-burn preferment he’d been promised, since it just wasn’t coming his way. he even dropped that he was eyeing a law degree – though one grand was hella underwhelming support for that hustle. i was more like hoping he was on the level than fully buying his sincerity; but either way, i was totally down to roll with his deal. i knew mr. wickham was never meant for the clergy. so the deal went down quick: he dropped any claim to church help and scooped up three thousand pounds instead. with that, any connection between us was basically canceled. i thought he was too sus to get an invite to pemberley or even chill with us in town. and though he apparently mainly crashed in town, his law-study front was just a bluff – and now, free of all restraints, he’s living that idle, party-and-dissipation life. for, like, three whole years, i heard barely anything from him; but when the dude holding that church gig dipped, wickham slid into my inbox asking for the position. he swore up and down his situation was beyond dire – and honestly, i wasn’t shook to believe him. he admitted law was a total flop for him and was dead set on getting ordained if i’d hook him up with that living – which he was super sure about since he knew i had no other candidate and that my late dad’s plans were still on point. you can’t really hate me for saying no to that request or for shutting down every follow-up plug he made. his rage matched the dire state of his life – and he ended up dishing out the same savage abuse on me to everyone else as he did in his own letters. after that, any hint of acquaintance just ghosted out. i have no clue how he even survived, but last summer his unwanted vibes hit my radar hard again.

now, here’s some extra tea i’d really rather forget but have to spill ‘cause, well, the moment demands it. having dropped all this tea, i’m sure your lips are sealed. my lil sis – over ten years younger than me – ended up with the guardianship of my mom’s nephew, colonel fitzwilliam, and me. like a year ago, she got scooped out of school into a proper london setup; and last summer, she rolled out with the lady in charge to ramsgate – and, no cap, mr. wickham also dipped there, obviously on purpose. turns out, he already had a backstory with mrs. younge, whose shady charm we were majorly duped by; and with her lowkey conniving help, he hyped himself up to georgiana, whose sweet heart still remembered his childhood kindness so deeply that she legit ended up believing she was in love and even agreed to elope. note, she was only fifteen then, which, tbh, is her “excuse”; and after calling out her own reckless vibe, i gotta say, i learned the whole saga straight from her. i ended up crashing their squad a day or two before they were gonna yeet together; and then georgiana, who just couldn’t deal with grieving and dissing the big bro figure she nearly viewed as a dad, broke it all down for me. you can imagine the electric feels and wild moves i pulled. i kept my sis’s rep on lockdown, so nothing went public; but i dropped a letter to mr. wickham, who dipped out immediately, and mrs. younge got booted from her duty, obviously. mr. wickham’s main hustle was, no cap, my sis’s fat fortune – a cool thirty thousand pounds – though i can’t shake the thought that his real game was getting back at me. his payback would have been the ultimate clapback, no doubt.

madam, this is the 100% real play-by-play of every move we were both involved in; and if you don’t call it cap, i hope you’ll let me off the hook for any extra shade i threw at mr. wickham. i honestly don’t know how or what bogus filter he used on you, but his scam wasn’t surprising given you were totally in the dark about any of this. you couldn’t have possibly picked up on it, and suspicion just wasn’t your vibe. you might be wonderin’ why i didn’t spill all this tea last night – but i wasn’t in full control of my feels or what should’ve dropped then. for the realness of every detail here, i’m backing it up with colonel fitzwilliam’s testimony – my ride-or-die cousin and one of my late dad’s will execs – who’s been in on every deet of this saga. if you’re so done with me that my words are worthless, then feel free to holla at my cousin; i’ll even try to slide this letter into your hands by tomorrow morn. i’ll just add, god bless you.

  fitzwilliam darcy.

chapter xxxvi.

elizabeth, when mr. darcy slid her that letter, wasn’t even expecting some extra offer drop – she had zero expectation about its contents. but, lowkey, the tea inside had her flipping through it like it was the hottest tiktok trend, stirring up emotions all over the place. her feels as she read were straight-up undefinable. she was shook to first peep that he actually thought he could just drop an apology at will; and she was deadass convinced that no explanation he gave could ever hide behind a proper sense of shame. with deep-seated bias against anything he might say, she dove into his play-by-play of the netherfield drama. she read so fast, her brain buzzed from the need to know what the next line might drop, leaving her barely catching the meaning of the one just in front of her. his claim about your sister being cold? she nixed that instantly. and his rundown of the major beef against the match got her so heated, she straight-up wasn’t feeling even a shred of fairness toward him. he didn’t drop any remorse that hit her; his tone was all snobby and high-and-mighty – pure pride and insolence, full stop.

but then, when he switched gears to talk about mr. wickham – and she read, with a bit more focus, a deets dump that, if real, would wreck every halo she’d ever given him and mirror his own shady past – her feels got even more lit with pain and became impossible to label. astonishment, anxiety, even straight-up horror weighed on her. she kept trying to call it fake, blurting out again and again, “this must be false! this cannot be! this has gotta be the grossest cap ever!” and when she finished the entire letter – barely skimming the final pages – she snapped it shut, vowing never to even glance at it again.

in that totally overwhelmed state, with her brain all over the place, she kept walking; but nah, within like half a minute, she pulled the letter out again. scrambling to chill and collect herself, she forced herself into the painful re-read of every single word about wickham, meticulously breaking down the meaning of each sentence. his rundown of his ties with the pemberley fam matched his own drip word for word; and the depth of the late mr. darcy’s kindness, though she never knew how deep it was, aligned perfectly with his vibe. up to that point, each account backed the other – but then she hit the part about the will, and oh boy, the contrast was wild. what wickham had said about that living gig was still blazing in her memory; and as she replayed his very words, she couldn’t shake the feeling that there was major double-dealing on one side or the other. for a few moments, she even hoped her own heart wasn’t off track. but re-reading every detail – especially how wickham dropped all claims to that living and scooped up a fat three grand – had her hesitating hard. she put the letter down, mentally weighing every angle with what she thought was pure objectivity, but nothing added up. both sides were just a bunch of assertions. she read on, and every line made it clearer that the whole deal – which she thought was so contrived that no trickery could ever make mr. darcy’s actions seem less infamous – was actually turning in a way that might end up rendering him completely blameless.

the sheer extravagance and relentless diss she laid on mr. wickham totally shocked her even more; especially since she couldn’t pinpoint any proof of injustice. before his entrance into the ——shire militia – which he joined after being sweet-talked by that young dude he ran into in town, renewing a faint connection – she hadn’t even heard a peep about him. in hertfordshire, the only tea on his old life was what he served himself. as for his real vibe, if she had the receipts, she wouldn’t have even bothered asking. his face, voice, and overall drip instantly crowned him with every virtue imaginable. she tried hard to dredge up some sign of real goodness, some next-level integrity or kindness that could save him from mr. darcy’s savage burns – or at least, enough virtue to cover up the occasional slip-ups that she’d risk classing as mr. darcy’s depiction of years-long idleness and vice. but nothing solid came to mind. she could picture him in all his charm, but the only concrete good she remembered was the general neighborhood hype and the mad social clout he commanded in the scene. after mulling that over for a hot minute, she kept reading. but alas, the next chapter – detailing his schemes on miss darcy – was even backed up by what went down between colonel fitzwilliam and her just that very morning; and eventually, the only way to verify every single deet was to lean on colonel fitzwilliam himself – the same dude who’d already filled her in on his cousin’s near-obsessive involvement in every affair, a character she never doubted.

she totally remembered every deet from that first epic tea session with wickham at mr. philips’s – like, all his savage expressions were still fresh on her mental feed. now, she was hit with major shock at how sus it was to slide straight into a convo with a total stranger, and she was lowkey wondering how she had missed that red flag before. she peeped how cringe it was for him to self-promote like that, and how his empty flexes didn’t jive with his shady moves. she recalled him bragging that he wasn’t even shook about meeting mr. darcy – like, sure, mr. darcy might yeet outta the country, but he’d still stand his ground; yet plot twist, he ghosted the netherfield ball the very next week. she also remembered that before the netherfield fam bounced, he dished his whole story only to her, but once they dipped, everyone started spilling that tea – and he had zero filters left, no scruples, in trashing mr. darcy’s rep, even though he promised her that respecting his old man would always keep his vibe in check about the son.

how differently did everything now look on his timeline! his moves with miss king were now all about cold, money-first energy; and the fact that her funds were kinda meh no longer toned down his hustle but only amped up his grab for anything. his vibe towards her now had zero legit motive: he was either majorly played about her fortune or was just feeding his ego by hyping the idea that she’d been extra clingy from the jump. every tiny bit of good will he had been throwing her way started to look like total FOMO, disappearing into thin air; and in a solid flex for mr. darcy, she had to admit that mr. bingley – when jane grilled him – had already cleared his name ages ago; even though his manners were mad pompous and kinda off-putting, throughout their whole journey – a journey that recently had them vibing on the same level and getting super intimate with his ways – she had never, not once, peeped anything that screamed he was shady or unfair, nothing that screamed off-grid or uncool habits; that among his own squad he was mad respected and valued; even wickham gave him a nod like a bro; and she’d heard him drop sweet tea about his sister enough times to show he could feel some genuine love; because if his actions had been as extra as wickham painted them, then that massive diss on everything right would have been impossible to hide from the whole world; and honestly, anyone cool enough to roll with a solid dude like mr. bingley was next-level rare.

she got totally shook with self-hate. whenever she thought about mr. darcy or wickham, she felt like, damn, she’d been totally blind, extra biased, and a straight-up clown.

“omg, how savage i’ve been!” she cried. “i used to flex on my epic discernment! i used to stan my own abilities! i even dissed my sister’s extra honest vibes and boosted my vanity with pointless, innocent distrust. like, how humiliating is this reality check! but yo, it’s on point too! if i’d been in love, i’d have been even more blindly extra. but nah, it was all my vanity, not love, that got wrecked. vibing with one’s fav and getting salty over being ghosted right from the jump, i totally courted bias and lowkey ignorance, yeeting away any chance for reason. until now, i never even knew who i was.”

from herself to jane, from jane to bingley, her thoughts started spinning in a tight circle that soon dropped the realization that mr. darcy’s explanation was seriously sus; so she reread it. and damn, the second read hit completely different vibes. how could she not give props to parts of his claims in one read when in the other she had no choice? he straight-up declared he was totally oblivious to her sister’s crush vibes; and she couldn’t shake off charlotte’s ever-present savage opinion. and, tbh, she couldn’t deny that his low-key description of jane was bang on. she felt like, while jane’s feels were 100% lit on the inside, she wasn’t really showing off much – she carried a constant chill, a relaxed vibe that rarely mashed up with high-key sensitivity.

when she hit that part of the letter where her fam got roasted with mad mortifying yet totally deserved shade, her cringe levels skyrocketed. the straight-up justice of that burn hit her too hard to deny; and the tea he spilled about what went down at the netherfield ball – totally backing up his first round of disapproval – hit home even harder for her than for him.

the little props tossed towards her and her sister weren’t completely lost on her – they hit a sweet spot, but they couldn’t cancel out the epic disses her own fam had self-attracted; and when she peeped that jane’s major letdown was actually the fault of those closest to her, showing how their rep was trashed by such extra behavior, she fell into a vibe of depression harder than anything she’d ever known.

after a two-hour stroll down the lane, her brain swirling with every possible thought – replaying all the events, crunching probabilities, and trying to vibe with this sudden, massive plot twist – exhaustion and the sting of her long absence finally pushed her to yeet herself back home; and she bounced in with the clear mission to keep up her usual upbeat flex and to ghost any heavy feels that might wreck her convo game.

she got the lowdown right away: both of the gents from rosings had hit her up in her absence; mr. darcy popped by for, like, a hot minute to say his cya, but colonel fitzwilliam straight-up chilled with them for at least an hour, lowkey waiting for her comeback and almost ready to stalk her until she reappeared. elizabeth could only fake missing him – lowkey, she was totally relieved he wasn’t an option anymore. all her brain could really focus on was her lit letter.

"his parting obeisance."

chapter xxxvii.

the two gents bounced from rosings the next morning; and mr. collins, posted like a guard outside the lodges to drop his final respect vibes, came back with the bomb news that they were all doing hella fine and in decent spirits, even after that gloomy moment at rosings. then he yeeted himself over to rosings to cheer up lady catherine and her mini-me; and on the way back, he flexed a message from her ladyship, basically lowkey admitting that she felt mad boring and was extra desperate to have them all come chow down at her crib.

elizabeth couldn’t even look at lady catherine without her brain firing up the thought that, if lady catherine was feeling extra, she might’ve already been presenting her future niece on a silver platter; and she couldn’t help but crack a grin picturing the epic rage lady catherine would have unleashed. she kept musing, "what would she have said? how would she have acted?" as her own private meme.

their first tea drop was all about the shrinking rosings squad. "i swear, i feel that FOMO hardcore," declared lady catherine, "i honestly think nobody misses their squad as much as i do. but, like, i’m super attached to these young dudes; and trust, they’re mad attached to me too! they were extra bummed about leaving – they always are. our dear colonel rallied his vibes just enough at the end; but mr. darcy, oh man, he felt it on another level – even more than last year. his hardcore cling to rosings is seriously on the rise."

mr. collins had a couple of compliments and cheeky allusions to drop, which got a politely forced smile from both the mom and the daughter.

after dinner, lady catherine remarked that miss bennet was looking hella off; and immediately spilling her own take that it was ‘cause she wasn’t ready to bounce home so soon, she added,—
"but if that's the case, you gotta hit up your mama and beg to stick around a little longer. mrs. collins is gonna be super stoked to have you."

"i'm much obliged to your ladyship for your kind invite," replied elizabeth, "but i gotta keep it 100 – i can’t roll with that. i need to be in town by next saturday."

"dude, at that rate you'll have only been here for six weeks. i was expecting you to chill for two whole months. i told mrs. collins that before you even rolled in. there’s zero reason for you to dip so quick. mrs. bennet could literally spare you another two weeks."

"but my dad ain't about that life. he dropped a line last week telling me to bounce ASAP."

"dawson"

[copyright 1894 by george allen.]

"oh, your dad, for sure, might let you slide if your mama can swing it. like, daughters never really count that much to a father. and if you stick around a full extra month, i can totally scoop one of you up and roll out to london – because i'm jetting off early in june for a week; and since dawson is chill with the barouche-box, there's mad room for one of you – and honestly, if the weather’s cool, i wouldn’t even mind taking you both, since neither of you is built huge."

"you're all kinds of sweet, madam; but i believe we gotta stick to our original plan."

lady catherine looked resigned. "mrs. collins, you gotta send a servant along with them. you know i always keep it 100, and i can’t even with the idea of two young ladies trying to travel solo via post. that's totally not proper. you need to sort someone out. i have the utmost dislike for that whole vibe. young ladies should always be properly guarded and looked after, based on their station. when my niece georgiana hit ramsgate last summer, i made a major point of having her roll with two male servants. miss darcy – mr. darcy of pemberley’s daughter – and lady anne could never have rocked it any other way. i’m super on top of all those deets. you gotta send john with the squad, mrs. collins. i'm glad i dropped that hint, because it would seriously deflate your rep if you let them ride solo."

"my uncle is sending a servant for us."

"oh! your uncle? he keeps a man-servant, huh? that's dope – i’m seriously glad someone’s got those vibes. where are y'all gonna change horses? oh, bromley, obviously. just drop my name at the bell and you'll get taken care of."

lady catherine had a bajillion more questions about their trip; and since she didn’t get to answer them all herself, extra attention was on deck – which elizabeth lowkey thought was lucky, because if her mind wasn’t so jam-packed, she might’ve forgotten where she even was. she reserved all that deep reflection for her solo hours: whenever she was alone, it was the ultimate chill-out, and not a day went by without a solo walk to vibe with all those bittersweet throwbacks.

mr. darcy’s letter was literally becoming part of her brain – she was memorizing every sentence, and her feels for its writer were all over the place. when she recalled the style of his address, she burned with indignation; but then when she thought about how unfairly she had trashed and dissed him, her anger flipped onto herself – and his crushed feels then became something for her to pity. his cling and loyalty sparked gratitude, his overall drip earned mad respect – but she still couldn’t fully give him a yea or nay; nor could she ever twist her mind to regret her no-show or feel even the slightest urge to see him again. her own past moves were a constant source of self-roasted regret; and her fam’s hopeless mess only piled on the low-key sorrow. they were, like, completely unfixable. her dad was all about laughing at their wild energy and would never step in to curb the crazy antics of his youngest squad; and her mom, with manners so off-base herself, was totally unaware of the drama. elizabeth had teamed up with jane hella many times trying to rein in catherine and lydia’s reckless energy; but since their mom totally indulged them, there was zero hope for any glow-up. catherine, all soft and cranky and totally riding lydia’s coattails, always flipped at any advice; and lydia, stubborn and carefree, barely even gave them a listen. they were clueless, lazy, and all about vanity. if there was any officer in meryton, they’d be sliding into his dms; and since meryton was just a stroll away from longbourn, they were forever out there on the prowl.

a massive worry for jane was another vibe that was hard to shake; and mr. darcy’s explanation – which brought mr. bingley back into jane’s good books – only made the loss hit harder. his affection was proven to be 100% genuine, and his moves were totally clean – unless anyone wanted to toss shade on his unspoken trust in his bro. so it was brutal to think that such an epic, wizard-level situation, packed with perks and pure promise for happiness, got totally wrecked for jane by the foolish, extra behavior of her own fam!

and when all that deep tea mingled with the glow-up of wickham’s character, you could totally believe that the usually high vibes in her squad were so wrecked it was almost impossible for her to even fake a chill smile.

the hangouts at rosings stayed just as frequent during her final week as they were when she first landed. the very last evening was spent there; and her ladyship dove deep, asking every single deet about their trip, throwing down the best hacks for packing, and getting so extra about placing gowns in the one and only right way that maria literally had to undo all the morning’s work and repack her trunk from scratch.

when it was time to bounce, lady catherine, dripping with condescension, dished out a “have a good journey” and even dropped an invite to come back to hunsford next year; and miss de bourgh even went all out with courtesy, extending her hand to both in a final farewell.

"the elevation of his feelings."

chapter xxxviii.

n saturday morning, elizabeth and mr. collins kicked off for breakfast just a few minutes before the rest of the squad rolled in; and he grabbed the chance to drop all his necessary parting civility vibes.

"i don't know, miss elizabeth," he started, "whether mrs. collins has already shown mad love for your kindness in coming over; but i’m 100% sure you won't bounce without snagging her thanks. the gift of your company was hella appreciated, i promise. we all know our humble crib – our plain way of living, our tiny rooms, our barely-there staff, and our super limited world-view – might seem mad boring for a young queen like yourself; but i hope you know we're super grateful for your presence, and we've moved mountains to make sure your time here wasn’t a total buzzkill."

elizabeth was all in with her thanks and big vibes of happiness. she had lit up six whole weeks with mad enjoyment; and the thrill of hanging with charlotte, plus all the kind flexes she got, made her feel seriously obliged. mr. collins was, like, totally chuffed; and with an over-smiling solemnity, he replied—

"it gives me the greatest pleasure to hear you didn't spend your time here in a major bummer way. we've, for real, done our best; and considering we've been able to plug you into some seriously superior society thanks to our rosings hookup – giving some major remix to our humble home scene – i think we can totally brag that your hunsford visit wasn’t all that irksome. our setup with lady catherine’s fam is, like, that extraordinary blessing few can even flex. you can see the epic footing we're on. look how we’re constantly in the mix there. honestly, with all the downsides of this humble parsonage, i honestly wouldn’t peg anyone crashing here as an object of pity while they're vibing with our rosings squad."

words just couldn’t capture the full elevation of his feels; so he was forced to pace around the room while elizabeth tried to mash up civility and straight-up truth in a few quick lines.

"you can literally carry a super positive report of us all the way into hertfordshire, my dear cousin. i lowkey trust you'll do just that. you've been a daily witness to lady catherine’s mega attentions to mrs. collins; and all in all, i hope it doesn't look like your friend’s coming off as unfortunate—though on that, best to keep it on the down-low. just let me assure you, my dear miss elizabeth, that from the bottom of my heart, i most cordially wish you equal mega-happiness in marriage. my dear charlotte and i are totally in sync – one mind, one vibe. there's a crazy resemblance in character and ideas between us. we literally seem like we were designed for each other."

elizabeth could safely say that such a setup was pure happiness, and with equal realness added that she was totally down with and celebrated his domestic bliss. she wasn’t even bummed out when their recitals got interrupted by the entrance of the lady from whom it all sprang. poor charlotte! it was straight-up sad to leave her to that company; but she chose that lane with eyes wide open; and even though she was lowkey regretting that her visitors were bouncing, she wasn’t out there asking for pity. her crib, her home management, her parish, her poultry squad, and every little dependent vibe still had their own unique charm.

finally, the chaise pulled up, trunks were strapped down, parcels got stuffed inside, and it was officially ready to roll. after a super affectionate, tearful bye-bye among friends, elizabeth got her ride prepped by mr. collins; and as they strolled through the garden, he was busy dropping his best respects to all her fam – not forgetting to throw in massive thanks for the kindness he scored at longbourn in the winter and to hurl compliments at mr. and mrs. gardiner (even if he didn’t really know them). he then handed her off, with maria trailing behind, and just as the door was about to shut, he suddenly flipped and reminded them – with a bit of panic – that they had totally forgotten to leave a message for the rosings ladies.

"they had forgotten to leave any message"

"but, of course, you'll wanna have your humble respects delivered to them, along with your grateful thanks for all the kindness they dished out while you were here."

elizabeth was cool with that: the door got shut, and the carriage bounced off.

"good gracious!" maria shrieked after a few minutes of silence, "like, it feels like just a day or two since we rolled in! and yet, mad tea has been spilled!"

"a whole lot, no cap," her companion sighed.

"we smashed dinner nine times at rosings, plus sipped tea there twice! like, i got so much tea to spill!"

elizabeth whispered, "and omg, how much tea i gotta hide!"

their trip went down with barely any drama or extra talk; and within four hours of bouncing from hunsford, they landed at mr. gardiner’s crib, where they were set to chill for a few days.

jane looked pretty fly, and elizabeth barely had any time to peep her mood amid all the engagements her aunt had lined up for them. but jane was set to head home with her, and at longbourn there’d be all the downtime needed for a proper vibe check.

meanwhile, it took some serious willpower for her to even wait until longbourn before dropping the tea about mr. darcy’s proposals to her sister. knowing she had the power to spill bombshells that would totally shock jane – and at the same time, majorly fuel her own vanity that she hadn’t yet managed to break down – was such a killjoy temptation for openness that nothing could override it, except the fact that she was totally on the fence about how much to spill, and lowkey scared that if she started dishing out bingley deets, she’d only end up making her sister even more heartbroken.

“how lit are we packed in, fam!”

chapter xxxix.

t was the second week in may, when the three babes set out together from gracechurch street for the town of ——, in hertfordshire; and, as they rolled up to the designated inn where mr. bennet’s carriage was supposed to meet them, they immediately peeped—big props to the coachman’s on-point timing—that both kitty and lydia were posted up in a dining-room upstairs. these two had been vibing there for over an hour, busy flexing a visit to the across-the-block milliner, peeping the sentinel on guard, and drippin’ dressing on a salad and cucumber like it was a trending food hack.

after greeting their sis squad, they triumphantly flaunted a table decked out with cold cuts straight from an inn larder, exclaiming, “isn’t this lit? isn’t this an epic surprise?”

“and we’re gonna treat y’all,” added lydia, “but y’all gotta slide us some cash ‘cause we just blew ours at that shop over there.” then, flashing her latest cop, she said, “look here, i copped this bonnet. i ain’t feelin’ its vibe, but i figured why not snatch it anyway? imma rip it to pieces as soon as i get home and see if i can glow it up better.” 

and when her sisters roasted it as ugly, she deadpanned, “oh, but there were two or three way uglier ones at the shop; and once i snag some fresher-coloured satin trim, i bet it’ll be mad tolerable. plus, it won’t even matter what you rock this summer after the ——shire peeps bounce from meryton in a fortnight.”

“are they, for real?” cried elizabeth, legit hyped.

“they’re gonna camp out near brighton; and i’m lowkey dying for papa to take us all there for the summer! it’d be an epic plan, no cap, and probably cost next to nothing. and mamma’s down for it too, of all things! just imagine how sus our summer would be otherwise!”

“yes,” thought elizabeth; “that would be a fire plan, no cap, and exactly what we need. omg! brighton and a whole squad of soldiers for our crew, since we already got wrecked by that one lame militia regiment and meryton’s monthly balls!”

“yo, i got some tea for y’all,” said lydia as they sat down to table. “what’s the scoop? it's major news—capital news—and it's about someone we all stan.” 

jane and elizabeth exchanged a glance, and they lowkey told the waiter to dip, ‘cause he didn’t need to stick around. lydia cracked up and said, “ay, that is totally your extra formal vibes. you seriously thought the waiter shouldn’t catch our tea—as if he even gives a damn! bet he hears way worse than what i’m ‘bout to spill. but fr, dude’s ugly af; i’m stoked he bounced. i’ve never seen such a long chin in my life. anyway, here’s my tea: it’s about dear wickham; he’s way too lit for the waiter, right? there’s zero chance of wickham marrying mary king—boom, drop the mic! she already jetted down to her uncle’s in liverpool to crash there. wickham is safe.”

“and mary king’s safe!” added elizabeth; “safe from any connection that’s hella imprudent when it comes to cash flow.”

“she’s a total fool for ghosting if she was feelin’ him.”

“but i hope there’s no crazy attachment on either side,” said jane.

“i’m sure there isn’t on his. imma bet he never gave a single straw about her. i mean, who would even vibe with such a nasty little freckled thing?”

elizabeth was majorly shook, realizing that even though she never threw down such raw insults herself, that savage sentiment was basically the same tea she’d once harbored.

as soon as everyone had polished off their eats, and the older ones footed the bill, the ride was ordered; and thanks to some slick flexin’ on logistics, the whole crew—with all their boxes, workbags, and parcels, and the extra baggage of kitty’s and lydia’s fresh buys—got loaded up in it.

“how lit are we packed in, fam!” cried lydia. “i’m lowkey glad i brought my bonnet, just for the extra flex of having another band-box! aight, now let’s get mad comfy and snug, spill the tea and crack up all the way home. but first, dish it—what’s been poppin’ for y’all since you dipped? any cute dudes? any flirty vibes? i was lowkey banking on one of you snagging a hubby before bouncing back. i swear, jane’s gonna be an old maid real soon—she’s almost three-and-twenty! lord, i’d be so embarrassed not to be hitched before three-and-twenty! my aunt phillips wants y’all to get husbands so hard, like, you wouldn’t even believe. she even said lizzy oughta have taken mr. collins; but fr, i don’t think that would’ve been any fun at all. damn, i’d be dying to be married before any of you! and then, i’d be chaperoning y’all to every ball. dear me! we had such a blast the other day at colonel forster’s! kitty and i were supposed to spend the day there, and mrs. forster even promised a cheeky little dance in the evening (btw, mrs. forster and i are ride-or-die besties!) so she called up the two harringtons; but harriet was off sick, and so pen had to roll solo; and then, guess what we did? we straight-up dressed up chamberlayne in women’s threads on purpose to pass as a lady—only imagine the fun! not a soul peeped on it except colonel and mrs. forster, and kitty and me (aside from my aunt, ‘cause we had to borrow one of her gowns); and i swear, he looked absolutely savage! then when denny, wickham, pratt, and like two or three other dudes strolled in, they had zero clue who he was. lord, i was dead laughing! and mrs. forster was cracking up too. i legit thought i’d keel over. and that had the dudes suspecting something, and soon they clued in on what was really poppin’.

with such insane stories of their parties and epic jokes, lydia—plus kitty dropping extra hints—went all out to meme her crew on the ride back to longbourn. elizabeth barely tuned in, but wickham’s name kept getting hyped up every two seconds.

their homecoming was mad chill. mrs. bennet was hella hype to peep jane still lookin’ on fleek; and throughout dinner, mr. bennet kept droppin’, “i’m so glad you’re back, lizzy.”

the dining-room crew was massive, as nearly all the lucases pulled up to holla at maria and catch the tea; and the convo topics were all over the place: lady lucas was lowkey askin’ maria about her eldest daughter’s vibes and even her poultry status; mrs. bennet was busy multitasking—on one hand scooping the latest drip info from jane (chillin’ a few rows below), and on the other, dishing it out to the young miss lucases; meanwhile, lydia was blasting her morning fun deets so loud that literally anyone within a hundred miles could peep her hype.

“oh, mary,” she chirped, “i wish you’d been with us ‘cause we were straight-up vibin’! like, kitty and i pulled down all the blinds and acted like there was zero audience in the coach; and i’d have totally ridden all the way if kitty hadn’t been off sick; and when we rolled up to the george, i swear we were on fleek—we served the other three the dopest cold lunch ever, and if you’d been there, we’d have spoiled you too. and then, on the way back, it was non-stop fun! i legit thought we’d never squeeze into the coach. i was dying of laughter. and we were so hype the entire ride home—we talked and laughed so loud that anyone ten miles away could have caught the vibes!”

to which mary replied super seriously, “i ain’t about to diss those pleasures, sis—they’re probably totally on point for most gals. but real talk? they just aren’t my jam. i’d way prefer vibing with a killer book.”

but lydia, lowkey, didn’t catch a word of that. she rarely tuned in to anyone for more than a hot minute, and mary’s words were straight-up background noise.

in the arvo, lydia was all, “yo squad, let’s roll over to meryton and see what’s good,” but elizabeth was hella against that plan. not that the miss bennets couldn’t totally chill at home half a day before chasing down the officers, but there was also a major reason for her nay-saying. she was straight-up ghosted by the thought of bumping into wickham again, and vowed to dodge him at all costs. knowing the regiment was bailing in a fortnight gave her mad comfort—once they bounced, she hoped there’d be zero wickham drama to stress about.

it didn’t take long at home before elizabeth caught wind that the brighton plan—tea that lydia had dropped at the inn—was the hot topic with her folks. elizabeth peeped that her dad was not even tryna budge; but his replies were so vague and sus that her mom, even though lowkey bummed, still clung to the hope that she’d eventually win the bid.

chapter xl.

lizzy’s thirst to spill the tea to jane about what went down couldn’t be kept on the dl any longer; and finally deciding to hold back every deet involving her sis and set her up for a major surprise, she dished out the main tea the next morn on the whole drama between mr. darcy and herself.

miss bennet was initially shook, but her total sis love made it all chill—any hype for elizabeth’s moves was 100% natural; and before long, that shock melted into other feels. she felt bad that mr. darcy dropped his feels in such a sus, off-key way; but even more, she was gutted thinking about the heartbreak her sis’s refusal probably slammed him with.

“him bein’ hella sure he’d succeed was straight-up wack,” she said, “and he really shouldn’t have dropped his feels like that; but think on it—only makes his letdown that much savager.”

“deadass,” replied elizabeth, “i genuinely feel for him; but he’s got other vibes that’ll soon ghost his interest in me. you aren’t gonna throw shade on me for sayin’ no, right?”

“blame you? oh nah.”

“but you gonna roast me for speakin’ so hella nice ‘bout wickham?”

“nah—I don’t think you were trippin’ with what you said.”

“but you’ll know it once i break down what went down the very next day.”

then she spilled the tea on the letter, reciting every bit of its deets about george wickham. damn, what a hit for poor jane—who’d have roamed the world never imaginin’ one person could pack so much wickedness into the whole human race! and even though mr. darcy’s vindication made her feel kinda grateful, it couldn’t ease the sting of that bombshell. she went all in tryin’ to show it was probably a major mix-up, working hard to clear one issue without dragging the other into the mess.

“this ain’t gonna fly,” said elizabeth; “you can’t just spin both of ‘em into gold. you gotta pick one and stick with it. there’s only so much merit dryin’ between the two—just enough to crown one as a legit good dude; and lately, that balance has been mad unstable. as for me, i’m leanin’ hardcore toward it all bein’ mr. darcy’s vibe, but you do you.”

it took a hot minute before jane managed to crack even a small smile.

“i honestly can’t remember ever bein’ so shook,” she said. “wickham is hella bad—it’s almost beyond belief. and poor mr. darcy! dear lizzy, just think about the pain he went through. such a savage letdown! and then knowin’ your trash opinion too! and havin’ to spill this tea about his sis! it’s just too much distress—I bet you feel it deep down too.”

“oh no, all my regret and compassion just vanish when i see you practically drip with both. i know you’ll serve him mad justice, so i’m gettin’ more chill and detached by the minute. your overflow of feels is, like, givin’ me life; if you keep mournin’ him, my heart’s gonna be as light as a feather.”

“poor wickham! there’s like this vibe of innate goodness in his face—such raw openness and a chill, gentle aura.”

“no cap, there was some major mismanagement in schoolin’ these two. one got all the real good vibes, while the other only scored the looks.”

“i never thought mr. darcy would come off so lackluster in that department like you used to say.”

“and yet, i was tryna be mad clever by dissin’ him with zero reason. it’s like the ultimate hack for boostin’ your genius and unlocking your wit—havin’ that kind of dislike. sure, you can be throwin’ shade all day without droppin’ the perfect line; but you can’t be laughin’ at a dude forever without occasionally droppin’ something witty.”

“lizzy, when you first peeped that letter, i’m sure you couldn’t have handled it like you do now.”

“deadass, i couldn’t. i was straight-up uncomfortable—totally off, even downright unhappy. and with no one to vibe with about my feels, no jane to say ‘yo, you weren’t that weak, vain, and extra,’ oh, how i missed you!”

“man, it sucks that you dropped such heavy words about wickham to mr. darcy, ‘cause now it all comes off as completely unearned.”

“for sure. but gettin’ all bitter is just a natural side-effect of the biases i was feedin’. there’s one thing i need your advice on: should i let our crew in on the real tea about wickham’s character or nah?”

miss bennet paused for a sec, then replied, “ain’t no reason to flex him so harshly. what’s your take?”

“i’m sayin’ it shouldn’t even be attempted. mr. darcy didn’t give me the green light to blast his feels publicly. in fact, he wanted every deet ‘bout his sis kept on the DL; and if i try to school folks on the rest of his moves, who’ll even believe me? the hate against mr. darcy is so savage that it’d straight-up wreck half the decent peeps in meryton if i tried to paint him in a good light. i’m just not down for it. wickham’s gonna bounce soon; so eventually, no one here will even care about his true vibe. in time, everything will come out, and we can all just laugh at how clueless they were. for now, i’m keepin’ it zipped.”

“you’re totally right. airing his mistakes would probably ruin him forever. he’s likely regrettin’ his moves now and tryna rebuild his rep. we can’t push him into total desperation.”

the chaos in elizabeth’s head eased up after that chat. she’d offloaded two major secrets that had weighed her down for a whole fortnight, and she was sure jane was a down listener for whenever she needed to spill more tea. but there was still some behind-the-scenes deets that prudence said, “nah, keep that on the low.” she didn’t dare share the other half of mr. darcy’s letter, or confess just how much his friend truly valued her. this was some high-level tea no one was meant to sip; and she knew that only a perfect, full-on mutual understanding between the peeps would let her drop this final load of mystery. “so then,” she said, “if that hella unlikely moment ever pops off, i’ll just vibe and let bingley spill his own tea in a way that’s way more on point. i ain’t got that level of free reign till the tea loses all its clout!”

now that she was chillin’ at home, elizabeth had time to peep her sis’s real mood. jane wasn’t vibin’—she was seriously down. she still held mad tender feels for bingley. havin’ never even been in love before, her crush was all about that fresh, first-love warmth, and given her vibe and maturity, it came with a stability most first crushes barely have; and she treasured every memory of him, preferring him over anyone else—so much so that all her good sense and care for her friends’ feels had to step in to curb the damage of her overwhelming nostalgia.

“well, lizzy,” said mrs. bennet one day, “what’s your take on this tragic saga of jane? as for me, i’m totally done with talkin’ about it ever again. i even dished this to my sis phillips the other day. but i can’t for the life of me believe that jane even saw him in london. honestly, he’s such an undeserving dude—and i don’t think there’s even a sliver of a chance she’ll lock him down now. no one’s even whisperin’ about him cruisin’ up to netherfield in the summer; and i’ve asked everyone who might know.”

“i am determined never to speak of it again”

“i truly don’t believe he’ll ever crash at netherfield again.”

“oh, well! it’s literally his call. no one wants him around; though i’ll always throw shade that he treated my daughter hella badly—and if i were her, i wouldn’t have put up with that mess. anyway, my consolation is that i’m sure jane will just end up dyin’ of a broken heart, and then he’ll be left regretin’ his moves.”

but elizabeth couldn’t vibe with that kind of comfort, so she just clammed up.

“well, lizzy,” continued her mother soon after, “and so the collinses are livin’ the cushy life, huh? i just hope that lasts. and like, what kinda setup do they have? charlotte’s obviously a boss manager, no cap. if she’s even half as sharp as her mama, she’s stackin’ enough cash. there ain’t nothin’ extravagant about their home hustle, for real.”

“nah, not at all.”

“total top-tier management, for sure. yup, they always keep it 100—not spendin’ more than they earn. may good vibes rain on them! and i guess they even chat about snaggin’ longbourn once your dad kicks the bucket. they act like it’s basically theirs, i swear, whenever that goes down.”

“that was a topic they weren’t even allowed to drop before i was around.”

“nah; it would’ve been weird if they did. but i’m sure they dish that tea amongst themselves. if they can chill with an estate that isn’t even legally theirs, even better. i’d be so embarrassed if i had one that was just tied down to me.”

when colonel miller’s regiment went.

chapter xli.

the first week after their return flew by. the second week kicked off. it was the last days of the regiment crashin’ meryton, and every young lady in the hood was straight-up bummed. the whole vibe of dejection was next-level. only the older miss bennets could still eat, drink, and sleep and keep up with their usual grind. they got clapped on the wrist a lot by kitty and lydia, whose own misery was off the charts and who just couldn’t wrap their heads around such heartless vibes in the fam.

“omg, what are we gonna do? what’s even our move?” they’d constantly lament in their deep woes. “how you gotta be smirkin’ like that, lizzy?”

their ever-loving mama shared in their sorrow; she recalled the rough vibes she went through on a similar meltdown like twenty-five years ago.

“i’m tellin’ you,” she said, “i bawled for two whole days when colonel miller’s regiment bailed. i seriously thought i’d break my heart.”

“i’m pretty sure i’ll break mine,” said lydia.

“if only we could bounce to brighton!” observed mrs. bennet.

“oh yeah!—if only we could hit up brighton! but papa is such a total buzzkill.”

“a bit of sea-bathing would have me glowed up for life.”

“and my aunt phillips is definitely about that too—she says it’d be super good for me,” added kitty.

such were the moans echoing non-stop through longbourn house. elizabeth tried to switch up her mood with their cries, but every hint of pleasure got wiped out by pure shame. she felt all over again how right mr. darcy’s objections were, and never had she been so down to forgive his interference in his friend’s biz.

but the gloom of lydia’s prospect was lowkey canceled real quick—she got an invite from mrs. forster, the colonel’s wifey, to roll up to brighton. this invaluable bestie was a super young chick and just hitched. their mutual lit vibes in good humor and dope spirits had them linking up, and in just three months they were already ride-or-die besties.{287}

the mad hype that lydia was riding on that day—her straight-up fangirling over mrs. forster, mrs. bennet’s over-the-top delight, and kitty’s absolute cringe meltdown—was next-level and hard to even put into words. totally oblivious to her sister’s feels, lydia was zipping around the crib in ecstatic frenzy, shouting for all the congrats, laughing and chatting with extra savage energy; meanwhile, poor kitty sat in the parlor, sulking and griping about her fate in a tone as off as her whiny accent.

“i can’t see why mrs. forster shouldn’t slide an invite to me too,” she snapped, “even if i’m not exactly her bestie. i’ve got just as much right to be called up as lydia does—and, lowkey, i’m two years older.”

elizabeth tried, no cap, to school her in common sense, while jane attempted to get her to chill—but both moves were straight-up no-go. as for elizabeth herself, that invite barely sparked any hype in her like it did for mrs. bennet and lydia; she legit saw it as the death-warrant for any shot at common sense on lydia’s part, and, lowkey, if word got out, it would totally tarnish her rep. so she secretly slid some advice to her dad: keep lydia on a tight leash. she broke down all the tea—how lydia’s wild energy, plus zero benefits from being pals with a lady like mrs. forster, meant lydia would only get more cray at brighton, where the temptations are way next-level compared to home. her dad listened intently, then went—

“lydia will never chill until she yeets herself into some public scandal, and we can never expect her to pull it off without costing the fam some serious hassle.”

“if you knew just how massive the fallout would be from lydia’s unfiltered, extra dumb vibe—i mean, it’s already gone down, fam—you’d totally flip on this whole sitch,” elizabeth fired back.

“already gone down?!” mr. bennet repeated, deadpan. “what, did she scare off some of your crushes? poor lil’ lizzy! but don’t get down—those wimpy peeps who can’t handle a bit of absurdity aren’t even worth your time. now, show me the list of pathetic dudes ghosted by lydia’s folly.”

“indeed, you’re off, dad. i’m not holding any personal beef here—it’s about the overall chaos. our fam’s rep and respect in the world are gonna get wrecked by lydia’s wild, unfiltered antics and straight-up disregard for any restraint. excuse me, i gotta be blunt: if you, my dear father, don’t step in and check her over-the-top energy, and school her that her current pursuits ain’t a lifelong hustle, she’ll soon be irredeemable. by sixteen, she’ll have locked in the title of most determined flirt in history—like, the ultimate cringe queen who makes herself and her fam look ridiculous, flirting in the meanest, most low-level way possible, relying only on youth and being just “meh,” and with a brain so empty she won’t fend off the universal shade her craving for clout will spark. and in this mess, kitty’s riding along too—vain, clueless, lazy, and totally out of control! oh, my dear father, can you even imagine they won’t get roasted wherever they roll, and that their sisters won’t get dragged into the disgrace as well?”{289}

mr. bennet peeped that she was hella invested in the tea, and grabbing her hand in a dad-vibe, he replied—

“don’t stress, my love. wherever you and jane cruise, you’re gonna be respected and valued; you won’t look any less fly just ‘cause you’ve got two—or, i might say, three—silly sisters in the mix. we ain’t gonna catch no peace at longbourn if lydia doesn’t bounce to brighton. so let her dip. colonel forster is a straight-up sensible dude who’ll keep her from any real trouble; plus, she’s broke enough that no one’s gonna prey on her. in brighton, she’ll be even less notorious as a common flirt than she is here—officers will be checking out women with actual worth. so, fingers crossed, being there might teach her her own insignificance. anyway, she can’t get any more savage without us having to lock her up for life.”

with that reply, elizabeth had to just deal with it, though she still wasn’t feeling it and left him all disappointed and bummed. but that’s cool, cuz fretting over stuff outta her control just wasn’t her vibe.

if lydia and her mom had caught wind of her dad convo, their united rage would’ve been off the charts. but in lydia’s own wild imagination, a trip to brighton was basically every earthly glow-up. she imagined the streets of that poppin’ seaside hotspot totally flooded with officers, and saw herself getting mad attention from tens, even scores, of dudes she hadn’t even peeped before. she pictured the entire camp flex: tents lined up in flawless symmetry, packed with the young and vibrant, all lit up in scarlet; and to top it off, she saw herself chillin’ under a tent, tenderly flirting with at least six officers at once.

“tenderly flirting”
[copyright 1894 by george allen.]

if she’d known that her sister was lowkey tryna drag her away from these next-level prospects and wild realities, how would she have felt? only her mom could ever vibe on that level, probably feeling just as extra. lydia hitting brighton was the only thing that made her feel any better about the sad truth that her hubby was never gonna bounce to brighton himself.

but they were totally clueless about all that backstage tea; and their hype stayed on replay, non-stop, right up until the day lydia peaced out of home.

now elizabeth was about to see mr. wickham for the final time. after vibing with him a ton since her comeback, her old butterflies were totally done—like, she was over him AF. she’d even peeped that the once-sweet gentleness that had first fanned her sparks was now full of phony vibes and straight-up boredom. his current actions only fueled new dislikes; his hint about reviving those early flirty moves just added extra shade after everything that went down. she dropped all concern for him when she realized she was just his target for idle, frivolous gallantry; and even while trying to block it out, she couldn’t shake off the sting of his assumptive belief that, no matter how long or why his attentions had paused, recharging them would always satisfy her vanity and keep her on his fav list.

on the very last day the regiment was chillin’ in meryton, wickham dined with a few other officers at longbourn; and elizabeth was so not feeling any good vibes about splitting from him that when he casually asked how her time at hunsford had been, she dropped that colonel fitzwilliam and mr. darcy had both been posted for three weeks at rosings—and then she asked if he even knew the colonel.

he looked shook, kinda off, and a bit salty; but after a sec of recollection, with his smile bouncing back, he replied that he used to see the colonel on the reg quite often; and noting that the guy was super gentlemanly, he asked how she felt about him. her answer was majorly in his favor. then, all chilled, he added, “how long did you say he was at rosings?”

“nearly three weeks.”

“and you saw him almost every day?”

“yeah, almost every day.”

“his vibe is hella different from his cousin’s.”

“for sure; but honestly, i think mr. darcy gets even better with time.”

“indeed!” cried wickham, with a look that didn’t escape her. “and, pray, may i ask—” then he paused and, switching to a more upbeat tone, added, “do you mean his address got a glow-up? did he actually level up his manners? because i seriously hope,” he dropped to a more serious tone, “that he ain’t changed in his core.”

“oh, no!” said elizabeth. “in the core, i honestly think he’s still exactly what he’s always been.”

as she spoke, wickham looked all kinds of confused—like he couldn’t tell whether to be hyped over her words or totally suspicious of their meaning. there was something in her look that had him tuning in on edge, while she added—

“when i said he gets better with time, i wasn’t tryna say his mind or manners got an upgrade; i just meant that knowing him better lets you really vibe with what his true disposition is.”

wickham’s alarm cranked up, his face turning extra and agitated; for a few beats he went silent, then, shaking off the cringe, he turned back to her and said in his gentlest tone—

“you, who know my feels for mr. darcy so well, will obviously get how stoked i am that he’s wise enough to at least rock the appearance of what’s right. his pride, as sus as it may be, might actually work in his favor—not just for him, but for others too—because it stops him from pulling the shady moves i’ve had to put up with. i just worry that the ‘cautiousness’ you hinted at is only something he puts on when he’s visiting his aunt, whose opinion he’s totally in awe of. i know his freak-out around her has always been real; and a lot of his moves seem aimed at pushing the match with miss de bourgh—a goal i’m pretty sure he’s super into.”

elizabeth couldn’t help but smirk at all that tea, but she only gave a slight nod in response. she totally read that he was tryna drag her back into his old beefs, and she wasn’t in the mood to dive back in. the rest of the evening passed with wickham putting on his usual chill cheer, but without any extra effort to win her over; and eventually they split on a civil note, each probably lowkey wishing they’d never meet again.

when the squad broke up, lydia bounced back to meryton with mrs. forster, ‘cause they were set to dip early the next morning. the breakup was loud AF—more noise than tears. only kitty dropped real ones, weeping from pure vexation and jealousy. mrs. bennet was all over the place, showering lydia with good wishes for her upcoming epic life and hyping her to grab every chance to max out the fun—a kind of advice that, honestly, everyone expected she’d follow; and amid lydia’s chaotic, over-the-top goodbye hype, her sisters’ softer adieus were totally drowned out.{294}

the arrival of the gardiners.

chapter xlii.

ad elizabeth, whose opinions were 100% drawn from her own fam, couldn’t picture any serious marriage goals or homebody comforts. her dad—totally submerged in youth and beauty, and that effortlessly lit vibe they bring—had married a woman whose weak brain and narrow mindset had, like, early on killed any real love between them.{295} respect, esteem, and confidence all did a complete vanish; and every dream of domestic happiness got flipped on its head. but mr. bennet wasn’t the type to chase after consoled feels for the mess his own major screw-ups had created in the usual comforts that sometimes help the unlucky feel better about their dumb moves or bad habits. he was all about the countryside and books; and from those chill vibes came his main joys. as for his wife, he pretty much owed her nothing more than what her cluelessness and folly had already gifted him in laughs. sure, this isn’t the kind of happiness a dude would normally wanna owe his wifey; but when there’s no other streaming entertainment, a true philosopher can still vibe on what’s given.

elizabeth, however, was never blind to her dad’s sus behavior as a husband. she always felt the sting; yet, respecting his abilities and being grateful for his occasional affectionate vibes toward her, she tried hard to forget what she couldn’t overlook and kick out of her brain that constant breach of marital duty and decorum—which left his wife open to getting dissed by her own kids—which was just beyond reproach. but she had never been so woke as she was now about the downsides that would hit the kids of such a mismatched marriage, nor so clued in on the nasty fallout from such badly handled talents—talents that, if used right, might’ve at least kept her sisters’ rep intact, even if they couldn’t boost their mom’s brainpower.

when elizabeth was hyped about wickham bouncing out, she found barely any extra reason to be stoked about losing the regiment. their parties abroad were a total snooze compared to before; and at home, her mom and sister were forever griping about how dull everything was, casting a heavy gloomy filter over their domestic vibe; and while kitty might eventually get back to her natural smarts once all the brain static was cleared, her other sister—who was even more extra with her foolishness and overconfidence—was likely to get hardened by the double whammy of a watering-place and a camp. overall, she discovered what many have before: an event she’d been starving for didn’t actually deliver all the epic pleasure she’d promised herself. so it became necessary to mark a new starting point for real happiness; a fresh milestone on which to lock her hopes and get that pre-event buzz going, soothing the now and prepping her for the next inevitable letdown. her upcoming tour to the lakes turned into her ultimate remedy—the top consolation for all the awkward, cringy hours brought by her mom’s and kitty’s constant complaining; and honestly, if she could have roped jane into the plan, every bit of it would’ve been on fleek.

“but it is fortunate,” she thought, “that i’ve still got something to wish for. if everything were already set, my disappointment would be 100% guaranteed. but with this constant little regret of my sister not being around, i can actually keep my expectations for pleasure alive. a plan where every single part promises delight can never go off without a hitch; and overall disappointment only gets kept at bay when you hold on to some uniquely minor vexation.”

when lydia dipped, she promised to write super often and in crazy detail to her mom and kitty; but her letters were always hyped for ages and then turned out super short. the ones to her mom just spilled that she’d just come back from the library, where some such-and-such officers had been around and where she’d peeped some gorge bling that totally made her go wild; that she’d snagged a new gown or a fresh parasol—which she’d totally detailed if not for mrs. forster’s emergency call because it was camp o’clock; and her notes to her sis gave even less tea, since though a bit longer, they were so crammed with scribbled lines that they were literally not for public view.

after the first fortnight—like three weeks—of her being gone, longbourn began getting its glow-up. health, good humor, and straight-up cheeriness started coming back. everything looked way happier. the fams that had been in town for the winter bounced back, and summer drip and engagements started popping off. mrs. bennet was back to her usual grumpy-but-chill self; and by mid-june, kitty was so fixed she could stroll into meryton without shedding a tear—an epic moment that made elizabeth hope that by next christmas, kitty might be chill enough not to drop an officer’s name more than once a day (unless, of course, some shady war office move lands another regiment in meryton).

the time for kicking off their northern tour was super close; and with just a fortnight left, a letter from mrs. gardiner dropped in, instantly delaying the start and shrinking the tour. mr. gardiner got slammed with biz and couldn’t bounce until a fortnight later in july,{298} and had to be back in london within a month; clearly too short to hit all the spots they envisioned—or at least to do it with the comfy chill they craved. so they had to ditch the lakes and settle for a tighter tour; and per the new plan, they’d only roll as far north as derbyshire. in that county, there was enough to flex on for most of their three weeks; and mrs. gardiner was seriously vibing on it. the town where she’d spent some years back—and where they were crashing for a few days—was, in her eyes, as magnetically appealing as all the famed beauties of matlock, chatsworth, dovedale, or the peak.

elizabeth was hella disappointed: she had been starry-eyed about the lakes and was sure there’d be enough time to hit them. but she knew she had to be satisfied—and keep her temper on point—and soon enough, everything felt chill again.

just hearing “derbyshire” made her brain go wild with all sorts of thoughts. she literally couldn’t see the word without picturing pemberley and its owner. “but for sure,” she mused, “i can totally roll into his county with impunity and swipe a few of those ancient, petrified spars without him even catching a drift.”

the wait period just doubled—four weeks had to roll by before her uncle and aunt finally showed up. and show up they did: mr. and mrs. gardiner, along with their four kiddos, eventually appeared at longbourn. the littles—two girls aged six and eight, plus two younger bros—were gonna be left in the all-star care of their cousin jane, who was basically the fam’s fave, with a super steady vibe and sweetness perfectly suited to teach, play with, and love them.

the gardiners crashed at longbourn for just one night, then bounced the next morning with elizabeth in pursuit of fresh vibes and pure amusement. one thing was for sure—she was all about that perfect squad synergy; a vibe that meant being healthy and chill enough to take on any hassle, keeping the mood lit to boost every joy, and dishing out love and smarts to cover any inevitable disappointments abroad.

it ain't like i'm here to drop a full-on download about derbyshire or any of the heavy-hitting spots along the route—oxford, blenheim, warwick, kenilworth, birmingham, etc. are already total legends. we're just zeroing in on a tiny slice of derbyshire, fr. after flexin' all the major country wonders, the squad totally detoured to the chill town of lambton—mrs. gardiner’s old crib—where she’d just peeped that some old mate was still kickin’ it. and btw, within like five miles of lambton, auntie dished out that pemberley was posted nearby. it wasn’t exactly on their main drip route; just a mile or two extra, no biggie. so, while choppin’ up their plan the previous night, mrs. gardiner was all, "my love, shouldn’t you wanna peep out a place you’ve heard mad about?" and added, "plus, it’s a spot that’s tied up with so many of your peeps—wickham literally spent his whole glow-up there, no cap." 

elizabeth was lowkey stressing. she felt she had zero{300} business at pemberley and had to front like she wasn’t hyped to see it. like, tbh, she was straight-up over huge mansions—after ghosting so many, fancy carpets and satin curtains just didn’t vibe with her anymore.

mrs. gardiner clapped back at her laziness, saying, "if it were merely a boujee mansion decked out with all the drip, i wouldn’t even care; but yo, the grounds are fire. they got some of the dopest woods in the country."

elizabeth shut her trap, but her brain wasn’t having it. the thought of bumpin’ into mr. darcy while peeping the place hit her like a major cringe drop. the idea was straight-up dreadful! she literally flushed thinking about it and figured it was better to spill the tea to her aunt than risk a total faceplant. still, there were hesitations, so she decided to play it by ear—only dropping the deets on the fam’s absence as a last resort if her stealthy inquiries got clapped.

so later that night when she dipped, she slid over to the chambermaid and was like, "yo, isn’t pemberley hella fine? what’s the name of its owner, and, lowkey, are the fam still crashin’ here for the summer or nah?" the maid hit her with a chilly negative on the fam, so all her jitters ghosted, and she legit got mega curious to scope the house herself. next morning, when the topic popped off again and she got hit up for her vote, she played it cool and said she wasn’t really against the plan.

to pemberley, therefore, they were to go.{301}

conjecturing as to the date.

chapter xliii.

as they cruised along, elizabeth kept her eyes peeled for the debut of pemberley woods, lowkey feeling all kinds of jittery; and when they finally rolled up at the lodge, her feels were straight-up sky-high.

the park was mad huge and had a whole mix of terrains. they rolled in at one of its low-key spots, and then cruised for a minute through a gorgeous forest that stretched out like, forever.

elizabeth’s brain was so full she wasn’t even in the mood to chat, but she peeped and admired every epic spot and view. they slowly climbed up for like half a mile and then suddenly found themselves at the top of a major rise where the woods dipped out, and bam—her eyes caught pemberley house chillin’ on the other side of the valley, where the road twisted up all abrupt-like with{302} zero warning.

pemberley was a massive, flex-worthy stone crib, posted up on rising ground and backed by a ridge of towering, tree-loaded hills; and right upfront, a naturally epic stream swelled up big time—no sketchy, fake vibes whatsoever. its banks were lowkey and unforced. elizabeth was over the moon, thinking she’d never seen a spot where nature went extra without some bogus taste clashing in. the whole crew was vibing hard; and in that very moment, elizabeth was like, "fr, being the boss of pemberley would be goals!"

they bounced down the hill, crossed the bridge, and pulled up to the door; but while checking out the front side of the mansion, all that anxiety about meeting its owner came crashing back. she legit almost flipped, praying the chambermaid hadn’t been off on the deets. once they asked to check the place, they got let into the hall; and while waiting on the housekeeper, elizabeth couldn’t help but wonder, "wtf, how did i even end up here?"

the housekeeper rolled up—a proper, old-school queen who turned out way more chill and polished than elizabeth had braced for. they trailed her into the dining-parlour, a big, well-proportioned room dripping with style. after doing a quick survey, elizabeth slid over to a window to soak in the view. the hill they’d just descended—crowned with a fresh coat of trees and looking even sharper from afar—was straight-up gorgeous. every bit of the terrain was on point; she peeped the whole scene—the river, casually scattered trees along its banks, and the twisty valley—and was totally in awe. as they cruised into other rooms, the scenery shifted, but every window still dropped epic visuals. the rooms were tall and handsome, and the furniture screamed major boss energy; yet elizabeth could tell, with mad respect for his taste, that it wasn’t extra gaudy or overdone—more real elegance than the flashy clout of rosings.

“and of this place,” she thought, “i could’ve been the queen! i’d be chillin’ in these rooms like they were my own pad—rather than peeping them as a random outsider, i could have been livin’ it up and even had my uncle and aunt crashin’ as my VIPs. but, nah,” she snapped herself back, “that’d be a total loss; my uncle and aunt would’ve been ghost, and i'd never get the invite.”

that lucky brainwave was a total save—it stopped her from spiraling into regret.

she was lowkey dying to ask the housekeeper if her master was actually MIA, but her courage was straight-up napping. eventually, though, her uncle dropped the Q; and she turned away in a flash of panic as mrs. reynolds clued them in that he was absent—adding, "but we’re expecting him to-morrow, with a whole squad of friends." elizabeth was mad hyped that their road trip hadn’t been delayed even one day!

her aunt then hollered for her to check out a pic. as she stepped up, she peeped the likeness of mr. wickham, decked out among a batch of mini masterpieces hanging over the mantel-piece. her aunt flashed a smile and asked, "so, how’s it lookin’?" then the housekeeper slid forward and spilled that it was a pic of a young gent—the son of her late master’s steward, raised on his dime. "he’s now in the army," she added, "but lowkey, he’s turned out super wild.{304}"

mrs. gardiner shot her a smile, but elizabeth was too shook to hit it back.

"and that," said mrs. reynolds while pointing to another miniature, "is my master—and, fr, he looks bang on. it was done around eight years back, same time as the other."

"i’ve heard mad about your master’s fine looks," said mrs. gardiner, eyeballing the pic; "his face is pure fire. but, lizzy, you gotta tell us—does he really look like this or nah?"

mrs. reynolds’ respect for elizabeth cranked up when it sounded like she already knew the vibes of her master.

“does that young lady know mr. darcy?” someone piped up.

elizabeth blushed and mumbled, "a little."

“and don’t you reckon he’s a super fine gentleman, ma’am?”

"yes, very handsome," came the reply.

"i’m serious—i know no one as dapper; but head upstairs to the gallery and you’ll peep a way bigger, high-def pic of him. this room was my late master’s absolute fave, and these minis are still exactly as he left them. he was totally obsessed with them."

that kinda explained why mr. wickham was chilling among the art.

mrs. reynolds then steered their eyes to one of miss darcy’s miniatures, drawn when she was just eight years old.

“and is miss darcy as fine as her bro?” said mr. gardiner.

"oh, yes—the most stunning young lady ever and such a total pro! she’s always playin’ and singin’ all day long. and in the next room? they just dropped a fresh instrument for her—a gift from my master: she’s rolling in here to-morrow with him."

mr. gardiner, whose manners were easy and pleasant,{305} hyped her talkativeness with a bunch of questions and props, while mrs. reynolds—whether outta pride or pure love—was clearly vibin’ hard on chatting about her master and his sis.

“does your master crash at pemberley much throughout the year?”

"not as often as i’d wish, sir; but bet he spends like half his time here—and miss darcy is always down for summer vibes."

"except," thought elizabeth, "when she bounces to ramsgate."

"if your master ever got hitched, you might see him around more."

"yes, sir; but i don’t know when that’ll go down. i don’t even know who’s got the drip to match him."

mr. and mrs. gardiner beamed, and elizabeth couldn’t help but say, "that totally scores him major cred, for real, that you think so."

"i’m just spittin’ straight-up truth—what everyone who knows him would vibe with," replied mrs. reynolds.

elizabeth was lowkey shook—this was extra—and she listened with mounting awe as the housekeeper added, "i’ve never heard a single snarky word from him in my life, and i’ve known him since he was a wee four-year-old."

that was some next-level praise, totally flipping her previous idea that he was a grouch. her curiosity hit max level; she was dying to hear more and was super grateful to her uncle for dropping, "there are hella few peeps about who get this much hype. you’re lucky to have such a master."

"yes, sir, i know i am. if i rolled through the world, i wouldn’t find anyone better. i’ve always{306} observed that kids who are chill as babies stay chill when they grow up; and he’s always been the sweetest, most generous-hearted kid ever."

elizabeth nearly did a full-on double-take. "can this really be mr. darcy?" she wondered.

"his dad was a total legend," said mrs. gardiner.

"yes, ma’am, for sure; and his son’s gonna be just like him—mad affable even to the broke folks."

elizabeth was totally absorbing every deet, wondering, doubting, and craving more. mrs. reynolds couldn’t hit her with any other juicy dproof; she droned on about the pics, room sizes, and even the price tags on the furniture, but it was clear elizabeth’s mind was elsewhere. mr. gardiner, clearly amused by all this family hype she was laying on for her master, steered the convo right back, and soon she was rapping on his killer merits as they cruised up the epic staircase.

"he’s the best landlord and the best master that ever lived—def not like those wild young dudes today who only think 'bout themselves. every single one of his tenants or servants would do him up with a fat name drop. some folks call him proud, but i’ve honestly never seen any of that. to me, it’s just 'cause he doesn’t run his mouth like the rest of the squad."

"man, what a chill light that throws on him!" elizabeth thought.

"this fire account of him," whispered her aunt as they strolled, "doesn’t really match how he treated our poor friend."

"maybe we’re just gettin’ played," elizabeth mused.

"nah, that’s mad unlikely; our sources are totally certified.{307}"

when they hit the huge lobby upstairs, they were shown into a super pretty sitting-room that had just been revamped with way more elegance and brightness than the digs downstairs; and they got the lowdown that it was recently done just to make miss darcy happy, since she totally fell for the room on her last pemberley visit.

"he’s definitely a good bro," said elizabeth as she cruised over to one of the windows.

mrs. reynolds, already hyped for miss darcy’s upcoming entrance, added, "and that’s just how he rolls—with anything that lights up his sis, he’s on it in a flash. there’s literally nothing he wouldn’t do for her."

next up were the picture gallery and a couple of the main bedrooms—that was all that was left on the tour. the gallery was stocked with dope paintings, but elizabeth wasn’t about that fancy art snob life; having already scoped some pieces downstairs, she happily flipped her gaze to check out a few of miss darcy’s crayon sketches, which were hella more fun and easy to vibe with.

in the gallery, there were loads of family portraits, but they were meh for a stranger’s eye. elizabeth kept walking until she found that one familiar face. finally, she locked onto a pic that was a sick mirror image of mr. darcy—with that signature smile she clearly remembered catching when he peeped her. she hung there for several minutes in deep contemplation, then circled back for another look before they bounced from the gallery. mrs. reynolds dropped the info that it was snapped way back in his dad’s lifetime—in other words, vintage darcy.

there was at that moment, in elizabet{308}h’s mind, this softer, gentler vibe toward the original that she’d never felt at the peak of their hang. mrs. reynolds’ hype was no joke—what’s more legit than clout from an intelligent servant? as a bro, a landlord, a master, he had so many lives in his hands! so much joy or hurt was at his mercy! all that the housekeeper dropped about him only dripped good vibes; and as she stood staring at the canvas where he was immortalized, feeling his painted eyes lock on her, she got hit with a wave of gratitude so deep it softened all the rough edges of its expression.

after peeping every corner of the crib that was open for public flex, they bounced downstairs; and, after saying peace out to the housekeeper, they were handed off to the gardener, who met them at the hall door.

as they strolled across the lawn toward the river, elizabeth spun around for another glance; her uncle and aunt pulled up too; and while her uncle was lowkey guessing about the building’s era, boom—the owner himself popped out from the road behind, heading to the stables.

they were like, within twenty yards of each other; his appearance was so sudden and extra that dodging his cameo was impossible. their eyes locked instantly, and both got hit with a massive blush, like, next-level red alert. he totally jumped, frozen with shock for a hot minute; but then he snapped back, rolled over to the group, and spoke to elizabeth,{309} not exactly with perfect chill, but with mad politeness.

she had instinctively turned away; yet when he came closer, she awkwardly accepted his compliments, drowning in embarrassment. if his sudden arrival—or how he so perfectly mirrored that portrait they’d just checked out—wasn’t enough proof for her uncle and aunt that they were in the presence of mr. darcy, then the gardener’s stunned look on seeing his boss was an unmissable giveaway. they hung back a bit while he chatted with their niece, who, totally baffled and confused, hardly dared to lift her eyes to his face, and couldn’t even muster a proper reply to his civil Qs after her fam. completely amazed at how different his vibe was from the last time she’d seen him, every word he dropped only cranked up her cringe; the more she thought about how messed up it was being caught there, the few minutes they spent together turned into some of the most awkward moments of her life. he didn’t even seem all that chilled out; when he talked, his tone was missing that usual suave calm, and he kept hustling with rapid-fire questions about when she’d bounced from longbourn and how long she’d been kickin’ it in derbyshire, each one spilled out so rush-ad libs that it was obvious his mind was in full disarray.

eventually, all his words fizzled out; after standing in silence for a few beats, he suddenly snapped back, took his leave, and dipped.

the rest of the crew huddled with her, hyping up how fly he looked; but elizabeth wasn’t even in it—she was too lost in her own head, trailing behind in silence. she was drowning in shame and frustration. showing up there turned out to be the most ill-judged, hopeless move ever! how wild must that look to him? what a disgraceful vibe it must give such an egotistical dude! it could even seem like she lowkey purposefully threw herself in his path again! oh, why did i even come? or, why did he roll up a day before he was even expected? if they’d been just ten minutes earlier, they’d have totally dodged his eagle eyes—because clearly, he’d just landed, hopped off his ride. she kept flushing over and over about how twisted the meeting was. and his switched-up vibe—what did it even mean? that he’d go out of his way to speak to her was wild enough! but to do it with such over-the-top politeness, even asking about her fam? never in her life had she seen him this undignified—never had he been so soft-spoken in an impromptu cameo. what a major flip compared to his last serious moment at rosings park when he slid that letter into her hand! she was totally lost, not knowing what the heck to think or how to process it.

then they stepped into a gorgeous waterside walk, with every step dropping even nobler hills or lush stretches of woods as they neared—but it took a minute before elizabeth even caught a whiff of it. though she mechanically answered her uncle and aunt’s constant prods and pretended to check out the sights they pointed at, her eyes glazed over; every part of the scene was a blur. her brain was 100% locked on that one spot of pemberley house, wherever mr. darcy was lurking right then. she was straight-up dying to know what was going down in his head at that very moment; how he was thinking about her and if, against all odds, she was still his vibe. maybe he was just being civil ‘cause he felt chill; but yo, there was something in his tone that wasn’t all relaxed. whether he was more bummed or hyped about seeing her, she couldn’t tell, but one thing was crystal clear—he wasn’t checking her out with his usual cool composure.

eventually, her uncle and aunt’s jabs about her total daydream mode snapped her back, and she realized she absolutely needed to start acting like herself again.

they dipped into the woods, saying “laters” to the river for a hot sec, then clambered up some epic high ground; in spots where the trees left their gates open for the eyes to roam free, there were mad aesthetic valley views—with the opposing hills flexing in the background, and a whole squad of woods draped over mad parts of the scene, sometimes even catching a glimpse of the stream.

mr. gardiner was all, “bet, let’s circle the whole park,” but low-key had major FOMO that it might be a trek too extra. with a flexin’ smile, they got the deets: it was a straight-up ten-mile loop, no cap. game over, they stuck to their usual grind; and after a minute on that pregame circuit, the route led them on a slow descent through hanging woods to the water’s edge at one of its thinnest spots. they yeeted across on a basic-ass bridge totally on theme with the vibe—it was a spot way less extras than any they’d peeped before; and here the valley got squished into a tight glen, giving space only to the stream and a skinny trail snuggled in between rough coppice-wood borders.

elizabeth was hella curious to explore all those twisty turns; but once they had yeeted off the bridge and peeped how far they were from the crib, mrs. gardiner—who straight-up wasn’t built for these marathons—declared she was done and only wanted to squat back in the ride ASAP. so her niece had to ride with the flow, and they headed toward the house on the opposite side of the river, taking the closest route; but progress was {312} slow af, ‘cause mr. gardiner, though not usually vibin’ on that one, was extra into fishing. he was so busy peeping random trout making surprise cameos and yakking with the dude about them that he hardly moved an inch.

while they were slow strolling like snails, they got caught off guard again—elizabeth’s reaction was as extra as it was the first time—when mr. darcy made his entrance, rolling up mad close. since this path was less sheltered than the one before, they spotted him coming long before they even bumped into each other. even though elizabeth was shook, she was more prepped for a meetup than before and vowed to show up and chat like a boss if he was genuinely down to link. for a hot minute, she low-key thought he might bounce to another path; that idea held only while a curve in the trail ghosted him from view—but once the curve passed, dude was straight-up in front of them. one quick glance told her he hadn’t lost an ounce of his recent chill civility; so, trying to match his decorum, she started dropping compliments about the spot—saying things like “delightful” and “charming”—but before she could drop more, some sus throwbacks popped into her brain, and she got the vibe that her mad props to pemberley might be twisted into savage shade. her mood instantly went all ghosted, and she clammed up.

mrs. gardiner was chillin’ a bit behind, and when she paused, mr. darcy slid in with a smooth request: “yo, would you do me the honor of intro’ing me to your squad?” that royal move of civility totally caught her off guard, and she almost couldn’t help but flash a cheeky grin at the idea of him now trying to vibe with the very peeps his own pride had once clapped back at when it came to her. she internally thought, “omg, his face when he peeps who they really are—he’s been sleepin’ on them as just basic fashion peeps!”

anyway, the intro went down stat; and as mrs. gardiner named out their relationships, she threw a sly side-eye at him to peep his reaction—expecting that he’d yeet himself as fast as possible from such cringe companions. clearly, he was shook by the connection, but he held it together like a champ; instead of ghosting, he bounced back with the crew and slid into a chat with mr. gardiner. elizabeth couldn’t help but be totally hype and low-key celebrating the win—it felt extra that he knew she had some fam who didn’t make her blush. she tuned in 100% to every word dropping from her uncle, soaking up every flex of his smarts, style, and mad manners.

the convo soon pivoted to fishing; elizabeth caught mr. darcy politely inviting mr. gardiner to fish up a storm as often as he liked while chillin’ in the neighborhood—offering to hook him up with fishing gear and even dishing on which parts of the stream were lit with action. mrs. gardiner, strolling arm in arm with elizabeth, shot her a look that screamed “wtf, this is wild,” and elizabeth kept quiet though inside she was mega stoked—the compliment was all reserved for her glow-up. yet, her shock levels were off the charts; she kept low-key repeating, “why is he such a whole new vibe? like, what’s the tea? it def ain’t cuz of me—I mean, my clapbacks at hunsford didn’t even cause this kind of change. there’s no way he’s still vibing with me.”

after cruising for a minute—with the two ladies ahead and the two dudes trailing—when they reassembled, having dipped down to the river’s brink to flex on some quirky water plants, there was a tiny plot twist. it all went down ‘cause mrs. gardiner, totally wiped from the morning hustle, peeped that elizabeth’s arm wasn’t cut out to support her, so she bounced and linked up with her hubby’s arm instead. mr. darcy slid into that spot by her niece, and they walked on together.

after a brief pause, the lady broke the silence. she let him know she’d been told he was a no-show before she rolled up, casually noting that his arrival was totally unexpected—“for your housekeeper,” she added, “hit us up saying you wouldn’t be here ‘til tomorrow; and honestly, before we dipped from bakewell, we peeped that you weren’t even on the radar in the country.” he admitted all the tea, explaining that some business with his steward had forced him to bounce up a few hours ahead of the rest of his traveling crew. “they’ll join me early tomorrow,” he continued, “and among them are some who low-key claim they know you — mr. bingley and his sisters.”

elizabeth just gave a slight bow. instantly, her brain flipped back to the last time mr. bingley’s name got dropped between them; and judging by his vibe, his mind wasn’t on a diff game at all.

after a beat, he added, “plus, there’s someone else in the squad who’s extra keen on meeting you. can i, or am i asking too much, to intro my sister to you while you’re at lambton?” the ask was straight-up wild; it was so unexpected she didn’t even know how to respond. she instantly vibed that whatever urge miss darcy had to link up with her was totally a bro move, and without overthinking, it felt legit—it was super clutch knowing his grudges hadn’t morphed into hardcore hate toward her.

so they strolled on in silence, each lost deep in thought. elizabeth was mad uneasy—like, no cap, that was impossible—but she was also totally flattered and hyped. his move to intro his sister was the ultimate compliment. soon enough, they outpaced the rest; and by the time they hit the ride, mr. and mrs. gardiner were trailing about a quarter-mile behind.

mr. darcy then asked her to stroll into the crib—but she was like, “nah, i’m not tired,” so they just posted together on the lawn. in that awkward moment, so much could’ve been spilled, yet the silence was cringey. she was itching to talk, but every convo topic got blocked. eventually, she remembered they were on the move, so they dished about matlock and dovedale with mad hustle; still, time and her aunt’s slow-mo vibe drained both her patience and her ideas long before the chat wrapped.

when mr. and mrs. gardiner showed up, everyone got hyped to dip into the house for some refreshment—but they all declined, and then peaced out from each side with utmost politeness. mr. darcy then handed the ladies over to the carriage; and as it bounced off, elizabeth peeped him slowly strutting back toward the house.

her uncle and aunt then started dropping observations, each proclaiming him as mad superior to anything they’d ever expected. 

“he’s straight-up well-behaved, polite, and low-key humble,” her uncle said.

“there’s like a little regal drip about him, for real,” her aunt replied, “but it’s all in his vibe and not a bad look at all. i can now confirm with the housekeeper that while some folks might call him proud, i haven’t seen any of that trash.”

“i was shook by how he treated us—it went beyond basic civility; he was hella attentive even when there was zero need for it. his vibes with elizabeth were totally on the down-low,” he added.

“for real, lizzy,” her aunt chimed in, “he isn’t as fine as wickham; like, he doesn’t have wickham’s flex in his face even though his features are on point. but how’d you end up saying he was such a whole mood?”

elizabeth did her best to excuse herself, saying she was more into him when they met in kent than before—and that she’d never peeped him so chill as he was this morning.

“but maybe he’s just a little extra with his politeness,” her uncle replied. “your top-tier dudes are often like that; so i ain’t about to bank on his fishing word, ‘cause he might flip his script next day and yeet me off his turf.”

elizabeth felt they were totally misreading his character, but kept quiet.

“from what we’ve peeped of him,” mrs. gardiner continued, “i honestly wouldn’t have pegged him to act so savage towards someone like poor wickham. dude’s got zero evil vibes. on the flip side, there’s a smooth charm in his speech, and his whole face radiates a kind of epic dignity that doesn’t scream bad heart at all. but fr, the good lady who gave us the house tour set him up with a flaming rep! i legit couldn’t stop laughing sometimes. and he’s a generous boss, i guess, and that—through a servant’s eyes—means he’s got every virtue on lock.”

elizabeth then felt the pressure to drop some vindication for his wickham moves; so she low-key served the tea that, based on what she’d heard from his kent fam, his actions could totally be seen in a different light—and that his character wasn’t as sus, nor was wickham as charming, as the hertfordshire gossip had it. to back up her claim, she spilled the deets of all the money moves they’d been linked in, without naming her source, but promising that it was solid, no cap.

mrs. gardiner was shook and a bit worried; but as they rolled up to the spot of her old good times, every worrisome thought got replaced by nostalgic charm—and she was way too busy schooling her hubby on all the lit hangout spots around to think of anything else. totally wiped from the morning trek, they barely even dined before mrs. gardiner bounced off again on a quest to reconnect with her old crew, and the evening went down in a reunion that felt like an epic comeback after mad years apart.

the day’s tea was so jam-packed with epic moments that elizabeth had zero bandwidth for these new peeps; she could only be stuck on daydreaming about mr. darcy’s suave vibes, and especially about his move to intro his sister to her. {318}

chapter xliv.

lizzy had made up her mind that mr. darcy was def gonna drop his sis by to see her the very day after she landed at pemberley; so she was all in—vowing to be posted at the inn the whole morning. but lol, her plan was sus, ‘cause on the very next morning after they hit lambton, these visitors rolled in. they were cruising around the place with some new squad, and had just bounced back to the inn to freshen up for a dinner sesh with the fam, when the sound of a carriage got her attention at a window—she peeped a gentleman and a lady in a curricle rolling up the street.

elizabeth, on the spot, recognized the drip and instantly peeped what was up, dropping mad surprise on her relations by hyping the honor she was about to receive. her uncle and aunt were all, “whaaat?!” and the clumsy way she spilled the tea, along with all the wild deets from yesterday, sparked a whole new theory in their heads. nothing like this had ever been hinted before, but they now legit felt there was no other way to explain such extra attention from that side than a serious crush on their niece.

while these fresh notions bounced around in their heads, elizabeth’s own feels were off the charts. she was straight-up shook by her own discomposure; and on top of everything, she was low-key terrified that mr. darcy’s brother might be dropping too much tea in her favor—and, being super eager to please, she worried that no matter how hard she tried, her charm game might totally fail.

she dipped from the window, scared stiff of being spotted; and as she paced the room trying to get her act together, she caught mad inquisitive stares from her uncle and aunt that only cranked up the awkwardness.

then miss darcy and her brother showed up, and the formidable intro went down. elizabeth was shook to see that her new acquaintance was as red-faced and cringey as she was. ever since she landed at lambton, she’d low-key heard that miss darcy was extra proud—but in just a few minutes it became crystal clear that she was just mega shy. she could barely squeeze out more than a one-word reply from her.

miss darcy was tall and came off on a bigger scale than elizabeth; and though she was barely sixteen, her figure was carved to perfection with a smooth, womanly grace. she wasn’t as handsome as her brother, but her face carried smart, chill humor and her manners were totally humble and gentle. elizabeth, who had expected her to be as keen and unfiltered an observer as mr. darcy usually was, was majorly relieved spotting these chill vibes instead.

they hadn’t hung long when darcy dropped the news that bingley was also coming through to see her; and elizabeth barely had time to flex her satisfaction and prep for the visit when bingley’s quick steps echoed up the stairs—and boom, he bounced into the room. all of elizabeth’s old anger toward him was long nuked; even if any remnants stayed, they couldn’t compete with the unaffected, chill cordiality he rocked upon seeing her. he casually asked about her fam in a friendly, general way, looking and speaking with that same good-humored ease he’s always had.

to mr. and mrs. gardiner, he was hardly any less of a vibe than to her—they’d been low-key hyped to see him. the entire squad was buzzing with attention. the fresh tea about mr. darcy and their niece had everyone throwing earnest, though guarded, questions at each other; and soon it was clear that at least one of them totally knew what real love was. as for the lady’s feels, they stayed a bit murky; but one thing was for sure—the guy was drowning in admiration.

elizabeth herself had a checklist to handle. she needed to size up all her visitors’ vibes, sort out her own feels, and make sure she was totally on everyone’s good list; and in that game—where she worried most about tripping up—she was extra confident, ‘cause everyone she aimed to please was already vibing with her. bingley was down, georgiana was hyped, and darcy was dead set on pleasing.

in peeping bingley, her thoughts naturally zipped over to her sister; and omg, how mad did she crave to know if his feels were on the same wavelength. sometimes she got the vibe that he was yapping less than before, and a couple of times she even fancied that when he peeped her, he was low-key trying to find a familiar spark. but even if that was just in her head, she wasn’t fooled about his drip {322} with miss darcy, who had been set up as a rival to jane. not a single look passed between them that screamed special interest—nothing went down that could fuel his sister’s hype. on that front, she was quick to chill; and then two or three tiny moments happened before they split that, in her anxious take, nodded to jane’s memory—tinged with tenderness and a dare to say more if he had the guts.

at one point, while the others were chatting away, he leaned in and, with a tone dipped in real regret, said it “was a very long time since i had the pleasure of seeing you;” and before she could clap back, he added, “it’s been over eight months. we haven’t linked since the 26th of november, when we were all dancing together at netherfield.” elizabeth was seriously stoked that his memory was on point; later, when the coast was clear, he even asked if all her sisters were still at longbourn. there wasn’t a whole lot to that question, or his earlier remark, but his look and vibe spoke volumes.

it wasn’t often that elizabeth got to lock eyes with mr. darcy himself; but whenever she did, his expression was nothing but pure, genuine chill—and in every word he dropped, she caught a tone so far removed from any snobby hauteur or shade toward his crew that it totally convinced her that the manners upgrade she’d witnessed yesterday—even if only for a day—was for real. when she peeped him out there tryna mingle and collect good vibes from folks that, just a few months back, he’d have totally dissed, when she saw him being mad civil not only to her but to the very peeps he’d openly dissed—recalling their last wild scene at hunsford parsonage—the transformation hit so hard that her jaw nearly dropped in shock. {323}

their guests hung around for over half an hour; and when they finally bounced, mr. darcy called his sister over to join him in saying they were all down to link up with mr. and mrs. gardiner and miss bennet for a dinner sesh at pemberley before the crew dipped out of the country. miss darcy, though super shy when it came to handing out invites, was all in and played along. 

mrs. gardiner peeped her niece, low-key curious about how she—the main player in this invite—was feeling about it, but elizabeth kept her head turned away. assuming that her dodge was just a flash of embarrassment and not a straight-up “nah” to the invite, and seeing that her hubby—who’s all about that social life—was totally down for it, mrs. gardiner took a chance, signed her up, and they locked in the day for the next session.

bingley was vibing hard at the thought of catching elizabeth again – he had like, a whole load of tea to spill and mad questions to drop after all their hertfordshire homies. elizabeth, reading his energy as a lowkey invite to dish on her sis, was totally stoked; and for that reason, among others, when the visitors yeeted out, she could look back at that last half hour with a kinda satisfied smile, even though in the moment it was super meh. deadass craving some solo time and lowkey fearing any nosy Q’s or hints from her uncle and aunt, she hung around just long enough to catch their hype on bingley before bouncing off to get her fit on.

but honestly, she didn’t need to stress about mr. and mrs. gardiner’s curious vibes – they weren’t tryna force a convo. it was clear she was way more plugged in with mr. darcy than they’d ever imagined, and it was obvious he was straight-up obsessed with her. they peeped some juicy deets about him, but not enough to warrant major grilling.

mr. darcy was officially the subject of anxious, good-vibe reviews; from everything they caught, he was flawless. his politeness was on another level – if they’d built his rep solely on their own feels and his servant’s tea, the entire hertfordshire squad wouldn’t even recognize him as mr. darcy. real talk though, there was legit an urge to trust the housekeeper, and they quickly realized that the clout of a servant who’s known him since he was four (and whose manners were straight-up respectable) wasn’t something to dismiss on the fly. nothing from their lambton peeps’ gossip really knocked his rep either. all they could throw at him was pride; and yeah, he probably had it – and if not, the small-town vibe would’ve had them calling him out anyway. still, everyone agreed he was a big-hearted dude, doing mad good for the struggling folks.

as for wickham, the crew soon peeped that he was a total dud in their circle; even though the deets about his beef with his patron’s son were fuzzy af, it was common knowledge that when he bounced from derbyshire he left a mountain of debts, which mr. darcy later straight-up cleared.

as for elizabeth, she was lowkey thinking about pemberley that evening way more than ever before; even though the night dragged on like forever, it still wasn’t enough time to figure out her feels for a dude in that mansion – she ended up staying wide awake for a full two hours just trying to decode it all. like, she didn’t hate him at all. nah, any hate had ghosted long ago, and she’d been almost embarrassed for ever dissing him in the first place. that respect built on recognizing his lit qualities – which she only reluctantly admitted at first – had slowly morphed into a friendlier vibe thanks to all the major proof of his dope nature she’d seen just yesterday. but real talk, way above respect and even admiration, there was this deep gratitude in her heart that just couldn’t be ignored. it wasn’t just about being grateful that he once crushed on her, but for still caring enough to forgive all the extra sass and acid tone when she shut him down, along with the totally bogus shade she threw his way. the dude, who she was convinced would’ve ghosted her as his ultimate enemy, now seemed, in this random meet-up, super eager to keep their connection alive; without any awkward flexing or extra drama just between the two of them, he was lowkey curating mad street cred from her squad and even planning to intro her to his sis. such a glow-up in a guy known for major pride got her both shook and sincerely grateful – ‘cause to love, like hardcore love, is a major flex; and so, the vibe it left on her was something to appreciate, even if she couldn’t completely spell it out. she respected him, was all about his well-being, and just needed to figure out how much that depended on her and whether restarting his DM game was the move for both their happiness.

that evening, between her aunt and herself, they agreed that the next-level civility miss darcy dropped on them the very day she hit up pemberley (she’d only rolled in for a late brunch, btw) should be imitated – even if they couldn’t match her vibe exactly – by cranking up their own politeness. so, the plan was set to roll up on her at pemberley the next morning. elizabeth was hyped about it; though when she tried to pinpoint why, she honestly had like, zero answers.

mr. gardiner dipped out soon after brunch. apparently, the fishing plans had been recharged the day before, and he had a firm setup to link up with some of the pemberley dudes by noon.

“engaged by the river.”

chapter xlv.

convinced now that miss bingley’s beef with her was pure jealousy vibes, elizabeth couldn’t shake the feeling that her appearance at pemberley was gonna be a major L for miss bingley, and she was lowkey curious to see just how much politeness that lady would serve up when they reconnected.

when they rolled up to the crib, they got led through the foyer into the saloon, which – thanks to its northern vibe – was totally fire for summer. the windows, dropping straight down to the ground, let in a dope view of the high-key wooded hills behind the house, plus the bomb oaks and spanish chestnuts that were casually scattered across the in-between lawn.

in this room, they got greeted by miss darcy, who was chillin’ with mrs. hurst, miss bingley, and the london lady she roomed with. georgiana’s welcome was all civil and proper, though riddled with that mad embarrassing awkwardness that comes from shyness and fear of messing up – making anyone feeling low-key insecure think she’s just plain snobby and closed off. but mrs. gardiner and her niece kept it 100 and actually felt sorry for her.

mrs. hurst and miss bingley gave them nothing more than a perfunctory nod; and once they got seated, there was that cringey, awkward silence for a few moments – because, tbh, awkward pauses are a vibe. eventually, mrs. annesley, a total classy babe with chill, genteel vibes, broke the freeze by kicking off some conversation that showed she was, like, hella well-bred compared to the rest; and between her and mrs. gardiner – with elizabeth occasionally dropping in – the chat started flowing. miss darcy looked like she was tryna muster the courage to join in, and sometimes she even dropped a short line when she felt there was minimal risk of anyone eavesdropping.

elizabeth soon peeped that miss bingley was watching her like a hawk, so she couldn’t even flex a word – especially not to miss darcy – without catching her full-on glare. honestly, that wouldn’t have stopped her from chatting if they weren’t sitting so far apart; but she was honestly kinda relieved not to have to spill too much, ‘cause her brain was busy on its own playlist. she was expecting a stream of gentlemen to roll in any moment; she was half hoping, half dreading, that the head honcho of the house might pop in – and whether she was more hyped or shook about it, she couldn’t really tell. after sitting like that for about fifteen minutes with total silence from miss bingley, elizabeth finally got snapped back when miss bingley shot over a cold question about her fam’s health. she answered with equal chill indifference and shortness, and miss bingley clammed up after that.

the next plot twist came when the servants rolled in with cold meat, cake, and a bomb spread of the season’s finest fruits; but this only went down after mrs. annesley threw a bunch of meaningful looks and smiles at miss darcy – basically a subtle reminder of her spot. suddenly, the whole crew had something to do; even if not everyone could chat, everyone could munch, and the gorgeous pyramids of grapes, nectarines, and peaches had the squad clustering around the table in no time.

while they were all eating, elizabeth got the ultimate chance to decide if she was lowkey shook or hella hyped about mr. darcy showing up, based on the feels he brought the moment he entered. and then, even though just a sec ago she thought her wishlist was all good, she immediately started regretting that he rolled in.

mr. darcy had been chillin’ with mr. gardiner for a minute – who, alongside two or three other in-house dudes, was busy with their river engagement – and only bounced once he heard that the fam ladies were planning a drop-by at georgiana’s that morning. the moment he appeared, elizabeth wisely flipped her switch to full chill mode, deciding to keep things perfectly easy and unembarrassed; a vibe that was super necessary but not exactly easy to pull off, ‘cause she totally saw that the whole room’s suspicions were now triggered, with every single eye locked on his entrance. no one had that keen-on-the-drama curiosity quite like miss bingley, who kept flashing wide smiles at every target she chatted with – her jealousy hadn’t totally flipped her script, and her crush on mr. darcy was still a solid part of her game. when miss darcy’s bro showed up, she doubled down on chatting; and elizabeth peeped that he was all about making sure his sis and her got acquainted, lowkey pushing every convo attempt possible. miss bingley watched all that too; and in a burst of anger-fueled imprudence, she seized the chance to drop, with sneering civility, 

“pray, miss eliza, ain't the ——shire militia yeeted from meryton? they must be a huge l for your fam.”

in mr. darcy’s presence, miss bingley lowkey didn’t dare drop wickham’s name; but elizabeth instantly read the room – wickham was dominating her thoughts – and the flood of memories linked to him gave her a moment of straight-up angst. pushing back hard against the shade, she answered the question in a chill, detached tone. as she spoke, she caught a side-eye of mr. darcy with a flushed face, staring at her seriously, while his sis looked completely confused and couldn’t even meet his gaze. if miss bingley had known how much hurt she was causing her ride-or-die friend, she probably would have kept her trap shut; but her whole plan was just to ruffle elizabeth by bringing up a guy she thought she had a major thing for, hoping elizabeth would slip up and show some raw emotion that might mess with mr. darcy’s rep – and maybe even remind him of all the goofy drama linking some of her fam to that crew. not a single word about miss darcy’s planned elopement had ever leaked out. she’d kept it on the down-low from everyone (except elizabeth), and among all bingley’s gossip, her bro was deadset determined to hide it, thanks to that old wish elizabeth once pegged him with – that maybe, one day, he’d make her his own. he definitely mapped out that plan; and without it messing up his moves to keep him away from miss bennet, it probably just added fuel to his extra concern for his bro’s friend.

elizabeth’s cool, collected vibe soon calmed his stormy emotions; and while miss bingley, all vexed and disappointed, didn’t dare edge closer to wickham, georgiana eventually bounced back – though not enough to actually speak up. her bro, whose glare she lowkey dreaded meeting, barely remembered she was even interested in the tea; and ironically, the move intended to distract him from elizabeth ended up locking his focus on her even more, and in a strangely cheerful way.

their hangout didn’t last much longer after that Q&A sesh; and while mr. darcy was busy seeing them off to their ride, miss bingley was busy venting all her shade on elizabeth’s looks, vibes, and outfit. but georgiana straight-up refused to join the hate train. her bro’s seal of approval was so lit that no one could doubt it – he’d hyped elizabeth so hard that georgiana couldn’t see her as anything but totally lovely and down-to-earth. when mr. darcy bounced back into the saloon, miss bingley couldn’t help but rehash some of the shade she’d thrown at his sis.

“yo, mr. darcy, miss eliza bennet looks hella sus this morning,” she snapped, “i legit never seen anyone flip so hard since winter. she’s all browned and rough, no cap! louisa and i were straight-up saying we wouldn’t even recognize her.”

mr. darcy, though lowkey cringing at that diss, kept his cool and replied that he only saw her as being a bit extra tanned – nothing miraculous about a summer glow, fr.

“for real,” she fired back, “i gotta be honest – i never peeped any beauty in her. her face is way too skinny; her skin just doesn’t pop; and her features are totally basic. her nose is missing that extra character; nothing in its lines stands out. her teeth are so-so, nothing outta the ordinary; and as for her eyes, which some people rave about, i see nothing epic there. they’ve got this sharp, bitchy look that i’m not here for at all; and overall, her whole vibe is this overblown self-sufficiency that’s just intolerable.”

totally convinced that mr. darcy was lowkey crushing on elizabeth, miss bingley knew dissing her like that wasn’t the ultimate move to win hearts; but when she saw him looking all kinda heated, she figured she’d scored exactly what she wanted. he, however, stayed resolutely silent; and in a savage bid to force him to speak up, she kept on,

“i remember when we first peeped her in hertfordshire – how we were all shook that she was considered a total beauty; and i especially recall you dropping that line one night after dinner at netherfield, ‘she’s a beauty! i’d as soon call her mother a wit.’ but later, she kinda outdid you, and i think there was a time when you were lowkey into her.”

“yeah,” darcy finally snapped, unable to keep it in any longer, “but that was only when i first met her; it’s been months since i’ve seen her as one of the hottest women i know.”

he then bounced, leaving miss bingley with all the satisfaction of having forced him to drop truth bombs that only ended up hurting her own vibe.

mrs. gardiner and elizabeth debriefed on everything that went down during the visit as they bounced, except for the one detail that had grabbed both their feels. they dished about his sis, his homies, his crib, even his fruit spread – basically, everything but the dude himself; yet elizabeth was lowkey dying to know what mrs. gardiner really thought of him, and mrs. gardiner would’ve been totally hyped if her niece had dropped that subject.

chapter xlvi.

lizabeth was pretty bummed about not finding a letter from jane when they first landed at lambton; that disappointment replayed every morning they were there – until, on day three, her mood flipped when she got not one, but two letters from jane at once, with one even tagged as having been sent to the wrong address. elizabeth wasn’t even shocked, since jane’s address game was always mad messy.

they were just about ready to dip for a walk when the letters dropped in; and her uncle and aunt, giving her the space to vibe with the letters in peace, bounced off on their own. the mis-sent letter had to get sorted first – it was dated five days back. the beginning was all about their little parties and meet-ups, with the usual small-town tea; but the latter half – dated the next day and dripping with obvious agitation – had some major news. it went like this:—

“since i dropped the above, dearest lizzy, something totally unexpected and super serious has gone down; but don’t worry, i’m not tryna freak you out – trust that we’re all straight. what i gotta spill is about poor lydia. an express hit at midnight last night, just as we were all out like asleep, from colonel forster, dropping the news that she dipped to scotland with one of his officers; to keep it 100, with wickham! can you imagine our faces? though for kitty, it wasn’t a total shock. i’m so, so sorry. such a reckless match on both ends, fr! but i’m holding out hope that it’ll work out and that his rep was just misunderstood. i can totally see him as thoughtless and extra sometimes, but this move (and honestly, let’s celebrate that a bit) shows nothing inherently evil in his heart. at least, his choice is disinterested – he knows my dad can offer her nada. our poor mom is totally heartbroken, while my dad’s taking it like a champ. i’m mad thankful we kept all the shade off him; we just gotta ghost it ourselves. they bounced saturday night around midnight, as everyone guesses, but no one noticed until like 8am yesterday. the express was shot out immediately. my dear lizzy, they must’ve cruised within like ten miles of us. colonel forster’s giving us major vibes that he’ll be here soon. lydia even dropped a few lines for his wife about their plans. i gotta wrap this up ‘cause i can’t be far from my poor mom for long. i’m kinda afraid you might not catch every bit of this, but honestly, i’m not even sure what i’ve just written.”

“by this time, my dearest sister, u prolly got my speedy-ass letter; i was lowkey tryna be clear but my brain’s in full glitch mode so coherence is overrated. dearest lizzy, i literally don’t know what to spill, but i got some hella bad tea for u that can’t wait.

like, a wedding between mr. wickham and our broke-ass lydia is such a cringe move, yet we’re straight up stressing over whether it even went down—‘cause there’s mad reasons to suspect they didn’t just yeet off to scotland.

colonel forster rolled in yesterday, having peaced out of brighton the day before, just a few hours post express drop. while lydia’s tiny note to mrs. f. hinted they were ghosting to gretna green, denny dropped some shady deets that wickham never even planned on hitting up gretna green or, like, marrying lydia at all—and he passed it on to colonel f., who immediately went into panic mode and bounced from b. on a mission to track their route.

he traced them real quick to clapham, but then ghosted further; ‘cause as soon as they hit clapham they hopped into a hackney coach and ditched the old ride from epsom. all that’s known after that is that they were spotted cruising along the london road.

i honestly can’t even. after doing every lowkey investigation around that side of london, colonel f. dipped into hertfordshire, checking every turnpike and every inn in barnet and hatfield like a detective on a mission, but came up with nada—ain’t no sign of these cloutless peeps.

with all the genuine feels, he rolled up to longbourn and dropped his worries on us in a way that was totally heart-on-sleeve. i genuinely feel for him and mrs. f., but honestly, no one can come at them with blame. our drama, my dear lizzy, is hella huge. my pops and mama are straight-up on the worst-case vibe, but i honestly can’t call him trash. tons of things might’ve made a hush-hush town wedding more lit than their original plan; and even if wickham was lowkey scheming against a girl with lydia’s connections (which is def unlikely), do i really believe her vibe’s so busted? impossible!

i’m seriously gutted that colonel f. isn’t buying the marriage hype: he straight up shook his head when i was all hopeful and said he didn’t trust wickham one bit. my poor mama is legit in sick mode and stuck in her room—if she could hustle it’d be better, but that ain’t in the cards; and my dad? i’ve never seen him so shook, fr. poor kitty is super heated for keeping their hookup on the down-low, but since it was supposed to be all hush-hush, can u really blame her?

i’m mad glad, dearest lizzy, that u dodged some of this messy drama; but now that the first shock has hit, can i admit i miss u like crazy? not tryna force it if it’s extra, tho. laters! 

i’m picking up my pen again to spill the tea i promised i’d hold off on; but yo, the sitch is so wild that i’m literally begging u to come here ASAP. i know my dear uncle and aunt so well that i’m not even shook to ask, even though i still got one more ask for the uncle.

my dad is jetting off to london with colonel forster, stat, trying to track her down. what he’s planning? i got zero deets, but his over-the-top anxiety is making him take shortcuts, and colonel forster is forced to bounce back to brighton by tmrw night. in this epic mess, my uncle’s advice and help are literally everything—i know he’ll totally get my feels, and i’m all in on his goodness.

“oh em gee! where, like, where’s my uncle at?” cried elizabeth, leaping from her seat right after finishing the letter, all hyped to chase after him without wasting a sec of that precious time; but as soon as she hit the door, a servant swung it open and mr. darcy popped in. her face was extra pale and her impulsive vibe made him almost jump, and before he could even get his thoughts together, she—whose brain was 100% locked on lydia’s mess—blurted, “my bad, but i gotta bounce. i need to find mr. gardiner right now for some urgent biz that can’t wait; i literally don’t have a sec to lose.”

“omg, what’s the sitch?” he blurted, all raw feels and zero politeness; then, catching his chill, “i won’t hold u up, but let me—or the servant—chase after mr. and mrs. gardiner. u ain’t well enough to do it on your own.”

elizabeth hesitated; her knees were shaking like a noob’s controller, and she knew chasing them wouldn’t score any wins anyway. so she called the servant back and, in a breathless, almost mumbled tone, ordered him to scoop up his boss and the boss’s wife and bring them home immediately.

after the servant dipped out, she slumped down, completely unable to hold herself up, looking so miserably sick that darcy couldn’t even bounce without checking in on her; he gently said, “let me call your maid. is there literally nothing u can sip to get some relief? maybe a glass of wine—should i fetch u one? ur hella ill.”

“nah, thanks,” she replied, trying to pull herself together. “there’s literally nothing wrong with me. i’m totally fine—I’m just wrecked by some brutal tea i just got from longbourn.”

she then burst into tears as she mentioned it, and for a few minutes, couldn’t spit another word. darcy, caught in his own suspense, could only mumble some fuzzy concern while watching her in deep, compassionate silence. eventually she broke through, “i just got a letter from jane with such brutal news. there’s no way to hide this. my baby sis dipped on all her friends—she eloped; she straight up yeeted herself into the arms of—of mr. wickham. they bounced together from brighton. u know him so well, so don’t even doubt the rest. she’s got zero cash, no clout, absolutely nothing to tempt him—she’s totally done for, forever.”

darcy was legit shook.

“when i think about it,” she added in an even more agitated tone, “i could have totally stopped this! i knew exactly what kind of dude he was. if only i’d dropped even a little of what i knew to the fam! if his real character had been out there, none of this drama would’ve popped off. but yo, it’s all, all too late now.”

“i’m seriously bummed—shocked,” cried darcy, “but is it, like, 100 percent for real?”

“oh, yes! they dipped brighton together on sunday night and were tracked nearly to london, but not any further—they definitely haven’t hit up scotland.”

“and what’s been done, what moves have been made to save her?”

“my dad bounced to london, and jane already slid a note begging my uncle’s help, so we should be departing in, like, half an hour. but, swear down, nothing can really fix it; i know deep that nothing’s dope enough to remedy this mess. how the heck do u even deal with a dude like that? how are they going to even be found? i got zero hope. it’s, like, every way straight-up horrible!”

darcy shook his head in silent agreement.

“when i peeped his true vibes, oh! if only i’d known what i could and should do! but i was too scared to go all in. total epic fail, big time!”

darcy didn’t really respond. he was almost zoned out, pacing up and down the room deep in serious thought; his brow was scrunched and his mood super gloomy.

elizabeth quickly caught on and instantly got it. her inner strength was completely crashing; everything felt doomed under the weight of her fam’s epic mess and that deep, crushing disgrace. she couldn’t even be shocked or call it out; but his self-toughing up didn’t drop any sweet feels into her heart, offering zero relief from her crushing sorrow. instead, it only made her realize what she really wanted; and she’d never felt so honestly that she could’ve been into him, like, now, when any love is doomed to be futile.

but her own vibes, even if they tried to crash in, couldn’t take over for long. lydia—the ultimate cringe, the dumpster fire of humiliation and misery she was causing for everyone—swiftly devoured all her personal cares; and covering her face with her hanky, elizabeth completely checked out. then, after a few minutes of silence, she was snapped back to reality by the voice of her loyal companion, who, with a mix of deep compassion and a “hold up” vibe, said,— 

“i'm afraid u been lowkey wishing i bounced for a while, and i ain’t got a legit excuse for sticking around, except for some real though probably useless concern. i wish to heaven i could do or say anything to ease this pain! but i ain’t gonna plague u with empty wishes just to fish for your thanks. i fear this tragic mess is gonna keep my sis from getting the pleasure of seeing u at pemberley today.”

“oh, for sure! do me a solid and apologize to miss darcy on our behalf. tell ‘em that some urgent biz is pulling us home, like, immediately. keep the nasty tea on the down-low for now—i know it won’t be long.”

he totally promised to keep it 100 confidential, dropped his sincere apologies for her wrecked vibes once more, wished for a way happier ending than the current trainwreck, and, after throwing some lovey vibes for her fam with one seriously earnest goodbye stare, dipped out.

as he bounced from the room, elizabeth felt it was totally unlikely they’d ever vibe together again like they did in derbyshire; and as she took one last look back at their whole saga—so full of contradictions and wild twists—she sighed over how messed up her feels were, feelings that now would fuel keeping the connection, but earlier would’ve been hyped to call it quits.

if gratitude and mad respect are like solid foundations for lovin', then elizabeth’s flavor shift isn’t sus or off. but if not—and if the feels coming from that are totally unreasonable compared to that classic first-encounter spark before even a word is dropped—there’s no excuse except that she kinda rolled with that method, rooting for wickham, and his epic fail might even justify her trying a less extra type of attachment. be that as it may, she watched him dip with regret; and in this early preview of the chaos lydia’s scandal would spawn, she got extra heartache just thinking about that tragic tea. ever since reading jane’s second letter, she had zero hope that wickham ever meant to marry her. like, only jane could even dream that.

surprise was literally the least of her feels about all this. even though the tea from the first letter still swirled in her head, she was majorly shocked—totally astonished—that wickham would even marry a girl he could never really marry for her money; and how lydia could’ve ever snagged him seemed utterly incomprehensible. but now, it’s just too natural. for a hookup like this, maybe she brings enough charm; and even though she doesn’t think lydia was purposely eloping without the plan of marriage, she’s got no trouble believing that neither her vibe nor her smarts would save her from being straight-up easy prey.

she never peeped any obvious crush vibes from lydia for him while the regiment was chillin’ in hertfordshire; but she was dead sure lydia just needed a tiny push to latch onto anybody. sometimes one officer, sometimes another, was her fave because their flexed attention boosted them in her eyes. her feels were on a constant rollercoaster, but always had someone in focus. and the damage from letting such a girl slide—oh man!—she felt that sting super hard.

she was so wild to be back home—to hear, to see, to be right there with jane, sharing the major drama that was about to crash on her fam; with a dad MIA, a mama totally out of steam and needing constant care; and even though she was nearly convinced nothing could be done for lydia, her uncle’s stepping in was, like, the ultimate clutch move, and until he rolled in, her impatience was off the charts.

mr. and mrs. gardiner bounced back in a rush, totally alarmed by the servant’s scoop that their niece had suddenly gone ill; but after she calmed them down by spilling the real cause—reading both letters aloud and getting all shook up over the postscript—they were all in. even though lydia wasn’t their fave, mr. and mrs. gardiner couldn’t help but get deep feels about it. it wasn’t just lydia; the whole fam was caught up in it; and after the first bursts of shock and horror, mr. gardiner was like, “i got u—i’ll do whatever i can.” elizabeth, expecting nothing less, thanked him with full-on teary gratitude; and with all three vibing as one, every detail of their journey got sorted mad fast. they were bouncing out as soon as possible.

“but what’s the move about pemberley?” cried mrs. gardiner. “john told us mr. darcy was here when u called for us—like, is that real?”

“yes; and i told him we wouldn’t be able to keep our engagement. it’s all been sorted.”

“what do u mean, ‘sorted’?” repeated the other as she dashed off to get ready. “and are they in on the truth, or what? oh, i wish i knew the real tea!”

but, like, wishes are just delusional; at best, they’d only be comic relief in the chaos of the next hour. if elizabeth had the time to chill, she’d be sure that any plan was a no-go for someone as wrecked as her; but she had a truckload of biz along with her aunt—and on top of that, notes to scribble to all their homies at lambton with lame alibis for their sudden ghosting. in just an hour, everything was wrapped up; and mr. gardiner, after settling his tab at the inn, had nothing left to do but bounce; and elizabeth, after all the morning misery, found herself, in way less time than expected, stuck in the carriage and cruising down the road to longbourn.

“the first pleasing earnest of their welcome.”

chapter xlvii.

“i’ve been rethinking it all, elizabeth,” her uncle said while they cruised outta town; “and for real, after some deep thought, i’m way more down on this than your eldest sis seems to be. it’s super unlikely any dude would even hatch a plan to mess with a girl who’s far from defenseless or lonely—and who was even chillin’ with his colonel’s fam—so i’m seriously leaning towards hoping for the best. like, could he really expect her squad to stay silent? could he honestly think the regiment wouldn’t call him out after dissing colonel forster like that? his temptation just doesn’t match up with the insane risk.

“do u really think that’s the move?” cried elizabeth, lighting up for a sec.

“honestly, on my word,” said mrs. gardiner, “i’m starting to vibe with your uncle’s take. it’s such a major breach of decency, honour, and all that extra sauce for him to even be down for it. i can’t really think that badly of wickham. can u, like, really just ghost him completely, as in, u believe he’s capable of pulling this stunt?”

“maybe not when it comes to looking out for himself, but in every other way, i can totally see him slacking. if, for real, that’s how it goes down! but i’m not tryna hope for it. like, why wouldn’t they just bounce to scotland if that was the plan?”

“first off,” mr. gardiner shot back, “there’s zero concrete proof they ain’t already in scotland.”

“oh, but the fact that they switched from that old chaise to a hackney coach is a major clue! and plus, there were literally zero traces of them on the barnet road.”

“well, then—if they’re chilling in london—they could be there concealing themselves, not for any shady reason beyond that. cash isn’t exactly flowing on either side; and maybe they figured they could save more money, even if it takes longer, by getting hitched in london rather than in scotland.”

“but why all the cloak-and-dagger vibes? why worry about being caught? why must their wedding be on the down-low? oh, no, no—this is totally sus. according to jane’s tea, his bestie was convinced he never planned on marrying her. wickham isn’t about to marry a chick unless there’s some serious cash involved. dude can’t afford it. and what does lydia even have besides being young, healthy, and cheerful, that would make him ditch every chance to level up by marrying into wealth? as for any limits that a corps disgrace might throw on a sketchy elopement with her, i can’t even judge; i got no deets on that. but on your other point, sorry, but it seriously doesn’t hold water. lydia ain’t got any bros to step up; and he might just figure, based on my dad’s lazy vibes and total lack of fam attention, that he’d give it zero thought—as any dad in that sitch would.”

“but, seriously, do u really think lydia’s so lost in her love for him that she’d agree to live with him without a legit wedding?”

“i mean, it does seem—and it’s super shocking—that a sister’s sense of decency should even entertain a doubt about it. but, really, i don’t even know what to say. maybe i’m not giving her enough credit. but she’s super young: she’s never been schooled to think on serious stuff; and for the last half year—no, even a full year—she’s been all about fun and vanity. she’s been free to waste her time in the most chill, frivolous way and roll with whatever opinions popped up. ever since the ——shire squad landed in meryton, her head’s been filled with nothing but love, flirtation, and officers. she’s been doing everything to crank up the sensitivity of her naturally lively feels; which, let’s be real, are already on fire. and we all lowkey know wickham’s got every charm and drip needed to snatch a woman’s heart.”

“but u see, jane,” her aunt said, “isn’t down on wickham enough to think he’d ever pull this stunt.”

“who does jane ever think badly of? and like, who would she believe is capable of pulling such a move until it was actually proven? but jane gets it, just as well as i do—wickham’s a total degenerate. we both know he’s been reckless in every sense of the word; he’s got zero integrity, zero honour; he’s as fake and shady as they come.”

“and u really know all this?” cried mrs. gardiner, buzzing with curiosity about how u got the tea.

“oh, fr, yes—no cap, that is literally the worst of all. till i was chillin’ in kent and peeped so much of mr. darcy and his fam, colonel fitzwilliam, i was totally clueless about the real tea. and when i bounced back home, the ——shire was set to dip from meryton in like a week or two. so, since that was the move, neither jane (to whom i dropped the full deets) nor i thought it necessary to spill our tea publicly; like, what’s the point of wrecking the squad’s hype about him if it just flips the vibe? and even when it was locked in that lydia was gonna ride with mrs. forster, the idea of schooling her on his shady character never even popped off in my brain. the thought that she might get burned by the scam never even slid into my head. honestly, the idea that something this wild would go down was, like, nowhere on my radar.

“when they all bounced to brighton, therefore, you had zero reason, i suppose, to think they were all lovey-dovey with each other?”

“nah, not even a smidge. i can’t recall any hint of that lovey vibe from either side; and if there had been even a tiny bit, you know our fam isn’t one to toss that around like disposable memes. when he first joined the crew, she was hella ready to stan him—and honestly, we were all hyped the same way. every girl in and around meryton was totally shook over him for the first couple months; but he never gave her any special clout; so after a wild spell of extra-fancy fangirling, her crush faded out, and the peeps in the regiment who treated her with more respect came back to being her favs.

obviously, even though there was barely any new tea to add to all their fears, hopes, and wild guesses on this crazy topic, none of them could stay off it for long throughout the journey. from elizabeth’s side, it was on loop—stuck there with savage levels of anguish and self-roasting regret, leaving her with zero chill or break.

they were out here moving on fleek; crashing one night on the road and hitting longbourn by dinnertime the next day. it gave elizabeth some major comfort knowing that jane probably wasn’t totally wrecked by waiting forever.

the little gardiners, low-key hyped by the sight of a sweet-ass ride, were chillin’ on the steps as they rolled into the paddock; and when the whip pulled up at the door, the pure joy lighting up their faces and bursting into full-on capers and wild energy was the very first dope sign of their welcome.

elizabeth yeeted out; after dropping a quick, hasty kiss on each of them, she sped into the vestibule where jane, sprinting down from her mom’s apartment, met her straight away.

as elizabeth wrapped jane in a big, affectionate hug—tears welling up in both of them—she didn’t waste a sec asking if there had been any word on the runaway crew.

“nah, not yet,” replied jane. “but now that my dear old uncle’s rolled in, i’m pretty sure everything’s gonna be chill.”

“is my pops in town?”

“yup, he bounced on tuesday, like i already hit you with the word.”

“and have you heard from him much?”

“we’ve only gotten one ping. he shot me a few lines on wednesday to say he landed safe and dropped his deets—stuff i low-key begged for. he just added that he wouldn’t slide into our dms again till he had some major tea to spill.”

“and my mama—how’s she? how’s everyone doin’?”

“my mom’s doing okay, i guess; though her vibe is hella shook. she’s upstairs and will be super stoked to see y’all. she’s still locked in her dressing-room. and mary and kitty, thank the lord, are doing just fine.”

“but you—what’s your vibe?” cried elizabeth. “you look all ghostly; like, you must’ve been through a total meltdown!”

but her sis clapped back that she was totally a-okay; and the chat that had been goin’ down while mr. and mrs. gardiner were busy with the kids was instantly shut down as the whole squad showed up. jane dashed over to her uncle and aunt, throwing out thanks and blessings with an alternating mix of smiles and tears.

once everyone crashed in the drawing-room, the q’s elizabeth had already dropped were naturally recycled by the rest, and soon it was clear that jane had, like, zilch intel to give. yet, the hopeful glow in her heart hadn’t dipped; she still was dead-ass confident everything would wrap up fine, expecting that each morning would drop some new letter—whether from lydia or her dad—to explain the sitch and possibly even announce the wedding.

mrs. bennet, whose crib they all hit up, after a few minutes of chitchat, greeted them exactly as expected—tears flowing, epic lamentations over the regrettable tea, savage rants against wickham’s sus moves, and nonstop vents about her own sufferings and crap treatment; dissing everyone except the one whose clueless indulgence was basically the root of her daughter’s major screw-ups.

“if i’d been able,” she snapped, “to hold it down by hittin’ brighton with my entire fam, none of this drama would’ve ever popped off; but poor, dear lydia had no ride-or-die squad to watch her back. why on earth did the forsters ever let her out of their sight? i’m convinced they totally ghosted her—she’s not the type to go off if she got proper backup. i always said they weren’t cut out to handle her, but i got overruled, as usual. poor, poor child! and now here’s mr. bennet ghosting, and i know he’s gonna throw hands with wickham wherever they cross, and then he’s gonna get straight-up wrecked—so what’s our move? the collinses will yeet us out before he’s even vibin’ in his grave; and if you ain’t pulling your weight for us, brother, i honestly don’t know what we’ll do.”

everyone was like, “omg, that is cray cray!” and mr. gardiner, after dropping a bunch of genuine love for her and the whole fam, assured her he was gonna roll up in london the very next day to back mr. bennet in every hustle to rescue lydia.

“don’t get all tripped out over useless drama,” he added. “it’s smart to prep for the worst, but there’s no reason to act like it’s the end of the world. it hasn’t even been a full week since they left brighton. in just a few more days, we’ll probably catch some tea on them; and until we know they’re actually hitched or planning to be, let’s not write them off. the moment i hit town, i’m gonna roll to my bro, drag him over to gracechurch street with me, and then we’ll squad up to figure out the next move.”

“oh, my dear brother,” replied mrs. bennet, “that’s literally what i’m hoping for. and when you get to town, track them down wherever they’re ghosting; and if they haven’t already tied the knot, make them do it. and about the wedding fits—don’t even make them wait for the drip; tell lydia she can blow all the cash she wants on them after they’re hitched. and above all, keep mr. bennet from throwing hands. let him know i’m in a straight-up hot mess—I’m so freaked out i’ve got shakes, butterflies all over, spasms in my side, head pain, and my heart’s pounding like crazy, i can’t get any chill, day or night. and tell my dear lydia not to boss around her outfit game until she peeps me, ‘cause she literally doesn’t know which warehouses are lit. oh, brother, you’re the real mvp! i know you’ll sort it all out.”

but mr. gardiner, even though he reassured her again about bustin’ his ass for the cause, couldn’t help but slide in a word of chill for both her high hopes and her crazy fears; and after chatting with her like that until dinner was on deck, they dipped, leaving her to offload all her feels on the housekeeper, who was holding down the fort in her daughters’ absence.

even though her bro and sis were like, “yo, there’s really no reason to cut yourself off from the fam,” they didn’t even try to stop her; they knew she just couldn’t hold her tongue around the servants when they were at the table, so they decided it was best that only one trusted house peep handled all her drama on the sitch.

in the dining-room, mary and kitty soon joined the crew—both having been mad busy in their own little zones and totally missing the entrance. one rolled in straight from her books, and the other was fresh from her glam session. both kept it mostly chill; the only difference was that kitty looked extra fretful—either from losing her fave sis or from catching her own heat in the drama—while mary was cool enough to lean over and whisper to elizabeth with a seriously grave vibe, right after they sat down at the table—

“this is one major unfortunate sitch and is gonna be all over the gossip feeds. but we gotta fight off all the haters and slide some serious sisterly consolation into each other’s wounded hearts.”

seeing that elizabeth wasn’t even vibing to respond, mary added, “as rough as this is for lydia, there’s one clear takeaway: once a girl loses her virtue, it’s done for; one misstep drags her into endless chaos, her rep is as fragile as it is fine, and she can never be too guarded around dudes who aren’t worth her time.”

elizabeth raised her eyes in total shock, but was so weighed down she couldn’t even clap back. meanwhile, mary kept on droppin’ these deep moral lessons to console herself about the epic mess in front of them.

in the afternoon, the two elder miss bennets scored a half-hour alone; and elizabeth immediately grabbed the chance to get all the tea that jane was also dying to know. after swapping collective sighs over the brutal aftermath of this drama—which elizabeth was 100% sure was gonna go down, and miss bennet couldn’t totally rule out—the convo kept on as elizabeth said, “but spill me every single deet i haven’t heard yet. give me all the extra particulars. what did colonel forster even say? weren’t they, like, vibing together even before the elopement went down? they must’ve been inseparable forever.”

“colonel forster did confess that he’d low-key suspected some bias, especially with lydia in mind, but nothing that would set off the alarm. i feel so bad for him—his care was on another level. he was actually on his way to see us, just to prove he cared, even before he had any inkling that they weren’t off to scotland; and the moment that vibe got out, he straight-up sped up his journey.”

“and was denny totally convinced wickham wouldn’t even get hitched? did he know they were planning to dip? had colonel forster even peeped denny himself?”

“yup; but when forster grilled denny, he straight-up denied knowing anything about their plan and wouldn’t drop his true opinion. he didn’t even repeat his whole spiel about them not marrying, so i’m kinda hoping he got misinterpreted earlier.”

“and until colonel forster rolled in himself, none of you even doubted that they were already, like, married?”

“how could such a wild thought even hit our brains? i was kinda uneasy—a bit scared for my sister’s happiness with him because, like, i knew his vibes weren’t always on the up and up. my parents were totally oblivious; they just knew it was such a reckless match. then kitty, all smug ‘cause she felt she knew more than the rest of us, spilled that in lydia’s last letter she’d prepped for that very step. apparently, she’d known they were head over heels for each other for weeks.”

“but not before they dipped to brighton?”

“nah, i don’t think so.”

“and did colonel forster even throw shade at wickham? like, does he really know what the dude’s about?”

“real talk, i gotta admit he wasn’t tossing as many good words at wickham as he used to. he reckoned wickham was reckless and extra; and ever since this hot mess dropped, word is that wickham left meryton drowning in debt—but i’m really hoping that’s just mad cap.”

“oh, jane, if we weren’t so low-key sneaky and had dropped all the tea we knew about him, none of this drama would’ve ever popped off!”

“maybe, but honestly, it might’ve even been better,” replied jane.

“but throwing up someone’s old faults without knowing how they’re feeling right now just isn’t on.”

“we only came from a place of good vibes.”

“can colonel forster, like, repeat the deets from lydia’s note to his wife?”

“he came through with it so we could peep it.”

jane then grabbed it from her pocket-book and slid it over to elizabeth. here’s what it said:—

my dear harriet,

you finna bust a gut laughing when you peep where i’ve bounced off to, and i legit can’t stop laughing just thinkin’ about your shocked mug tomorrow morning when i’m already missed. i’m straight-up heading to gretna green, and if you can’t guess with who, imma call you a total simp, ‘cause there’s only one dude in the world i stan, and he’s an absolute angel. i’d be lost without him, so consider it no harm that i dipped. you don’t gotta hit up longbourn with a word about my bounce if you’re not into it—the surprise will be even sweeter when i drop them a note signing off as lydia wickham. what a savage joke this is gonna be! i can hardly even write ‘cause i’m laughing so hard. please pass my apologies to pratt for me bailing on our plans and skipping the dance tonight. tell him i hope he forgives me when he gets the full tea, and that i’m totally down to dance with him at the next ball, like, with mad pleasure. i’ll call for my clothes when i hit longbourn; but i need you to tell sally to get a sick mend on that huge slit in my worked muslin gown before they pack it up. good-bye. give all my love to colonel forster. i hope you get lit and cheers to our epic journey.

your affectionate friend,
lydia bennet.

“oh, thoughtless, thoughtless lydia!” cried elizabeth as soon as she finished reading. “what a savage letter to drop at this moment! but at least it shows she’s dead-ass serious about her getaway. no matter what he might try to push later, on her end it wasn’t some shady scam. my poor dad—i can only imagine how hard that smacked him!”

“i’ve never seen anyone so shook. he was straight-up mute for a solid ten minutes. my mom literally got sick right then, and the whole house turned into chaos!”

“oh, jane,” cried elizabeth, “was there any servant there who wasn’t already clued in on the whole epic tea before the end of the day?”

“i dunno; i really hope someone was left out. but guarding the scoop at such a time is crazy difficult. my mom was in full hysterics; and even though i did my very best to help, i’m pretty sure i could’ve done way more. the horror of what might have gone down nearly had me losing it.”

“girl, taking care of her has totally wrecked you. you look so off—i wish i could’ve been there with you! you’ve been carrying all that stress by yourself.”

“mary and kitty have been super sweet and would’ve jumped in to help, i’m sure, but i just didn’t think it was right to drag them into this mess. kitty’s all slight and delicate, and mary is so deep in her studies that her chill time shouldn’t be smashed. my aunt philips rolled into longbourn on tuesday after my dad dipped and chilled with me until thursday. she was an absolute lifesaver, giving us mad comfort, and lady lucas was super kind too—she strolled over on wednesday morning to drop her condolences and offered up her crew (or any of her daughters) if we needed extra help.

“she really should’ve just stuck to home base,” cried elizabeth. “maybe she meant well, but during a disaster like this, you can never see enough of your neighbors. help is basically impossible; extra pity is just unbearable. let them flex from a distance and be done with it.”

she then slid into asking about the plans her old man had in town to get his daughter back.

“i think he was planning,” replied jane, “to hit up epsom—the spot where they last switched horses—to peep the postilions and see if any tea could be spilled. his main hustle was to snag the number of that hackney coach that yeeted them from clapham. it rolled in with a fare from london; and since he figured a lady and a gent switching carriages would definitely catch eyes, he was gonna scope out clapham. if he could somehow figure out which house the coachman first dropped his fare off at, he planned to ask around there, hoping to dig up the stand and the coach number. i don’t know if he had any other schemes, but he was in such a mad rush and his mood was so wrecked, i could barely even suss out that much.”

the post.

chapter xlviii.

the entire squad was hyped for a letter from mr. bennet the next morning, but the mail came in with absolutely zero word from him. his fam knew he was normally the king of ghostin’ and slow replies; but at a time like this, they were expecting him to at least hustle. they had no choice but to assume he had no dope news to drop—even then, they would’ve been happy just to get a confirmation. mr. gardiner only waited for the letters before he dipped.

after he bounced, they were at least sure they’d keep getting constant updates on what was going down; and their uncle promised, while partin’, to push mr. bennet to slide back to longbourn ASAP—a promise that seriously calmed his sis, who saw it as the only thing to keep her hubby from getting wrecked in a duel.

mrs. gardiner and the kids were set to crash in hertfordshire for a few more days, since she figured her presence could be clutch for her nieces. she hung with mrs. bennet and was a legit comfort during their chill time. their other aunt also bounced over frequently, always sayin’ she was there to cheer and boost them up—even though she never missed droppin’ fresh tea on wickham’s latest extra moves or sus antics, and more often than not left them even more down than when she arrived.

all of meryton was out here trying to trash the dude who, like three months ago, was basically an angel of light. now he’s being slammed as if he’s in debt to every local tradesman, and his shady moves—branded as seduction—had seeped into every tradesman’s fam. everyone declared him the wickedest young man ever; and all of a sudden, people started realizing they’d always been low-key sus about his fake goodness. elizabeth, even though she didn’t buy more than half of the gossip, was convinced enough to say her earlier warnings about her sister’s ruin were even more on point; and even jane, who was even less into the drama, was almost losing hope—especially now that the moment had come when, if they’d bounced to scotland (which she had never fully given up on), they’d probably have scored some news on their sitch.

mr. gardiner dipped outta longbourn on sunday; by tuesday his wifey got a letter sliding in that said as soon as he landed he peeped his bro and convinced him to roll up to gracechurch street. he also spilled that mr. bennet had already scoped epsom and clapham before his arrival but got zero fire tea; so now mr. bennet was on a mission to hit up all the main hotels in town, thinking they might’ve crashed one on their first london drip before snagging a crib. mr. gardiner lowkey didn’t expect any major clout from the move, but since his bro was hella hyped about it, he was like, “imma back you up.” oh, and he added that mr. bennet was totally ghosting london rn and promised another drop of deets super soon. there was even a ps drop to that effect:—

“i slid a message to colonel forster, asking him to peep the scene from some of the young buck’s squad in the regiment, to see if wickham’s rolling with any fam or got any hookups who might know which hood of the town he’s hiding in. if there’s anyone who can drop that secret tea, it could be a total gamechanger. rn, we’re completely in the dark. colonel forster will, i dare say, go all out to satisfy our curiosity on this front. but then again, maybe lizzy’s the plug who can fill us in on what squad he’s reppin’ nowadays.”

lizzy totally knew why everyone was deferring to her, but she wasn’t packing any deets that would live up to that mega compliment.

she’d never heard of wickham having any squad ties beyond a dad and mom – both long dead, like old memes. still, maybe some of his crew from that ——shire could drop extra deets; even though she wasn’t exactly vibing high hopes, the potential tea was something to peep forward to.

every day at longbourn turned into an episode of pure anxiety; but peak stress hit when the post was expected. the arrival of letters was the ultimate morning hype, the first major objective on the daily checklist. through these letters, whether it was fire or total trash, the tea of the day would be served; and every new day was hyped for some major news drop.

but before any more gardiner vibes hit, a letter slid in for daddy from a whole other corner – it was from mr. collins. since jane got the orders to pop open all mail that came for him while he was off doing his thing, she dutifully read it; and lizzy, who knew collins’ letters were always a wild ride of bizarre tea, leaned in and read along. the letter went like this:—

“my dear sir,

i feel super obligated – thank you fam, given our relationship and my current sitch – to send you my condolences for the brutal mess you’re currently caught up in, which we caught wind of yesterday in a letter from hertfordshire. be assured, my dear sir, that mrs. collins and i are seriously vibing with you and your entire squad during this mega low, which is, no cap, one of the bitterest dramas ever destined to stick around. i’ve got zero epic life-hacks to ease such a mega bummer or comfort you in this parent’s worst nightmare. honestly, watching your daughter dip outta life would’ve been a total blessing compared to this hot mess. and it’s even more savage ‘cause, as my dear charlotte told me, this whole wild behavior from your daughter looks like it stemmed from some major overindulgence; though, at the same time, for the sake of you and mrs. bennet, i’m inclined to believe her vibe was always off – otherwise, she wouldn’t be riding this crazy wave at such a young age. whatever it is, your sitch is seriously pitiful; and i ain’t the only one on this wavelength – mrs. collins, lady catherine, and her daughter (all clued in on the tea) totally agree that this major misstep from one daughter is gonna drag down the clout for all the rest. like, who in their right meme would wanna link up with a fam like that? this got me extra reflective, especially remembering a certain lowkey moment last november; cuz if it weren’t for that fire tea, i’d be deep in your sorrow and disgrace. so, my dear sir, my best advice is to vibe out as best you can, cut your unworthy child from your feed forever, and let her deal with the full fallout of her own savage mess.

i remain, dear sir, etc., etc.”

mr. gardiner didn’t slide another letter until he got a reply from colonel forster; and when he did, it was straight-up no vibes. it turned out that wickham was totally solo – no ride-or-die relation in sight, and he definitely wasn’t repping any near ones. his old crew had been massive, but ever since he joined the militia, he clearly wasn’t on intimate terms with any of them. so basically, there was zero homie who could drop any solid tea about him. on top of that, his personal finances were in a dumpster fire, giving him major incentive to keep things on the down-low – not just ‘cause lydia’s fam might snoop, but also because he’d left a massive gaming debt hangover. colonel forster reckoned that over a thousand pounds would be needed to clear his brighton tab. he owed a pretty hefty stack in the town, but his honor debts were even more savage. mr. gardiner didn’t even try to hide these bombshells from the longbourn crew; jane heard the tea and was shook. “a gamester!” she shrieked. “this is such a curveball; i never saw it coming.”

mr. gardiner also added that they should expect to see their daddy at home the next day – saturday. totally drained from all their epic fails, he caved to his bro-in-law’s plea to bounce back home and let him handle anything that popped up to keep the hunt alive. when mrs. bennet caught wind of this, she wasn’t nearly as hyped as the kids had expected, especially after all her anxiety over his well-being.

“what? he’s coming home, and without poor lydia?” she shrieked. “for real, he won’t bounce from london until he finds them. who’s gonna step in and snatch wickham, forcing him to lock it down if he bails?”

meanwhile, mrs. gardiner was lowkey craving some home vibes, so it was decided that she and her kiddos would slide into london at the same time mr. bennet bounced back. the coach handled the first leg of the journey and dropped its master back at longbourn.

mrs. gardiner bounced off, totally buzzing in a mix-up over elizabeth and her derbyshire bae – a dude whose name had NEVER even been dropped on purpose by her niece before now. the half-hyped hope that a letter from him would follow turned out to be total crickets. elizabeth hadn’t seen any deets from pemberley since her return.

with the fam in such a total funk, there was zero need for any extra lame excuses for her low vibes; nothing else could really be read into it – even though elizabeth, who by now was mad in tune with her own feels, totally knew that if she hadn’t been looped in about darcy, she might’ve handled the horror of lydia’s scandal a bit smoother. that would’ve saved her at least one outta two sleepless nights, in her honest opinion.

when mr. bennet finally rolled in, he was oozing his usual zen, poker-faced composure. he barely dropped a word – not a peep about the crazy biz that had taken him off-grid – and it took awhile before his daughters found the guts to spill any tea about it.

not until the afternoon, when he joined them at tea, did elizabeth dare slide the subject into conversation; and when she lowkey expressed her sadness over the mess he’d been through, he coolly shot back, “nah, say nada about that. who else should be catching the heat but me? it’s all on me, and i should feel every bit of it.”

“yo, don’t be so harsh on yourself,” buzzed elizabeth.

“feel free to warn me all you want; human nature is, like, hella prone to epic fails! nah, lizzy, lemme feel my full blame for once. i’m not scared of getting hit hard by the feels – they’ll fade out soon enough.”

“you think they’re in london?”

“yup; where else would they be hiding so well?”

“and lydia was all about hitting up london,” added kitty.

“she’s vibing then,” dad deadpanned; “and it looks like she’s set to stay for a minute.”

after a brief pause, he continued, “lizzy, i hold no grudges against you for dishing out that killer advice to me last may – which, given everything that’s gone down, shows you’re seriously woke.”

they got interrupted by miss bennet, who rolled over to snag mom’s tea.

“this is a full-on parade,” he exclaimed, “and it kinda gives misfortune a weird glow-up! another day, imma do the same – just chill in my library rocking my nightcap and powdered lounge suit, dishing out as much drama as i can – or maybe i’ll hold off until kitty ghosts.”

“i’m not gonna ghost, papa,” snapped kitty, all fret. “if i ever hit brighton, imma be way better than lydia.”

“you wanna hit brighton? lol, i wouldn’t trust you anywhere near it – not even for fifty pounds! no, kitty, i’ve learned to be cautious, and you’re gonna feel that lesson hard. no officer gets to roll through my house again, not even a quick pass through the village. balls? totally banned unless you’re chilling with one of your sisters. and you’re never stepping out until you can prove you’ve spent at least ten minutes a day adulting properly.”

kitty took these threats super seriously and started bawling.

“alright, alright,” he said, “don’t trip. if you’re a good girl for the next ten years, i’ll take you to a review at the end of it.”

chapter xlix.

two days after mr. bennet bounced back, while jane and elizabeth were strolling through the shrubbery behind the crib, they peeped the housekeeper coming up. thinking she was there to call them to mom, they hustled over; but instead of summoning them, when they reached her, she was like to miss bennet, “my bad for interrupting, madam, but i was lowkey hoping you’d got some fire tea from town, so i took the liberty to ask.”

“what’s the tea, hill? we ain’t heard any city vibes.”

“dear madam,” mrs. hill practically shrieked in astonishment, “don’t you know there’s an express drop for master from mr. gardiner? he’s been here for like half an hour, and master already got a letter.”

the girls bounced off, too hyped to stop and chat, sprinting through the vestibule into the breakfast room; then through the library – their dad wasn’t in either spot – and just as they were about to rally upstairs with mom, the butler rolled up and was like, “if y’all hunting for my master, ma’am, he’s strolling toward the lil’ copse.”

with that deet, they dashed back through the hall and sprinted across the lawn after their dad, who was deliberately making his way toward a small wood on one side of the paddock.

jane, not being the speedster that elizabeth was, soon lagged behind, while her sister, gasping for breath, caught up and hollered, “oh, papa, spill the tea! spill the tea! did you catch any word from my uncle?”

“yeah, got a letter from him by express.”

“so, what’s the tea—fire or flop?”

“what good vibes could we expect?” he shrugged while fishing the letter from his pocket, “but maybe you wanna read it.”

elizabeth snatched it from his hand, and jane finally caught up.

“read it out loud,” dad commanded, “cuz i honestly have no clue what the tea is.”

“gracechurch street, monday, august 2.

my dear brother,

at last, i can hit you with some real tea about my niece that, overall, i hope gives you all the good feels. right after you dipped on saturday, i was lucky enough to scoop up where in london they were crashing. the full deets i’ll keep on lock until we link up next, but for now, know this: i peeped them both——”

then, in a burst of excitement, jane yelled, “then it is as i always hoped – they are married!”

elizabeth read on: “i have seen them both. they are not married, nor do i find any vibe of them ever planning it; but if you’re down to roll with the engagements i’m laying on your side, i hope it won’t be long before they tie the knot. all that’s needed is for you to guarantee your daughter, through a formal settlement, her equal slice of the five thousand pound cake, to be split among your kids after you and my sis dip out; and also to commit to funneling her one hundred pounds per year during your lifetime. these conditions, considering everything, i didn’t hesitate to set up – feeling super privileged to do so for you. i’m sending this by express so there’s zero delay in getting your answer back to me. from these deets, you’ll totally see that mr. wickham’s sitch isn’t as doomed as everyone’s been saying. the world’s been totally played on that score; and i’m hyped to say there’ll be some extra cash – even after all his debts are wiped – to boost my niece’s fortune on top of her own stash. if, as i expect, you send me full powers to handle this biz in your name, i’ll immediately drop directions to haggerston to whip up a proper settlement. there won’t be the slightest need for you to bounce back to town again; so just kick back at longbourn and count on my hustle and care. hit me back with your answer as soon as possible, and make sure your reply is crystal clear. we figured it’s best for my niece to get hitched from this crib, which i hope you’ll totally approve of. she’s rolling in with us today. i’ll drop another line as soon as anything else is locked in. yours, etc.

edw. gardiner.”

“no cap, is this for real?” cried elizabeth once she finished. “can it really be that he’s gonna marry her?”

“so wickham ain’t as trash as we thought,” her sister chimed in, “my dear father, big congrats to you.”

“btw, have you hit that reply?” asked elizabeth.

“nah; but it’s gotta be done, like, asap.”

she then practically begged him, “oh, my dear father, hurry up and write that reply. think about it – every single moment is crucial in this wild drama.”

“lemme handle the writing for you,” offered jane, “if you’re not feeling the hassle.”

“i’m not feelin’ it at all,” dad grumbled, “but it’s gotta be done.”

and with that, he turned around and bounced with them back to the crib.

“and—can i ask?” elizabeth prodded, “but those terms, i suppose, must be stuck to?”

“stuck to? i’m just lowkey embarrassed he’s asking for so little.”

“and they gotta get hitched! yet he’s, like, such a dude.”

“yeah, yeah, they’ve gotta marry. nothing else can be done. but there are two things i seriously need to know: first, how much cash is your uncle dropping to make this happen; and second, how the heck am i gonna settle him up.”

“money! my uncle!” cried jane, “what do you mean, sir?”

“i mean, no dude in his right mind would lock in lydia for a lame deal like one hundred quid a year while i’m around, and fifty after i’m ghost.”

“that’s so on point,” said elizabeth, “even though it hadn’t hit me before. his debts gotta be cleared, and there’s still extra on top! oh snap, it’s gotta be my uncle’s doing! such a generous, solid dude, but i’m worried he’s stressing too hard. a tiny sum wouldn’t cover all that drama.”

“nah,” replied dad, “wickham’s a straight-up clown if he snags her for anything less than ten thousand pounds. i’d be seriously bummed to think that of him right from the jump.”

“ten thousand pounds! omg, no way! so how’s even half that amount gonna be paid back?”

mr. bennet clammed up; each of them, deep in thought, stayed quiet until they rolled up to the house. then, dad dipped into the library to scribble something while the girls bounced into the breakfast room.

“and so they’re actually getting hitched!” yelled elizabeth as soon as they were on their own. “like, how wild is that! and we gotta be mad grateful. that they’re locking it down—even if their happiness odds are slim and his character is seriously dropped—we’re forced to vibe with it! oh, lydia!”

“i console myself by thinking,” replied jane, “that he definitely wouldn’t lock in lydia if he didn’t actually care about her. even though our awesome uncle has been hustling to clear his mess, i just can’t vibe that ten thousand pounds, or even close, has been thrown down. he’s got his own kids, and might even have more. how could he fork over half of ten grand?”

“if we ever learn the full tea on wickham’s debts,” said elizabeth, “and exactly how much is settled on our sister’s behalf, then we’ll totally know what mr. gardiner did for them, because wickham doesn’t have a single sixpence to his name. the kindness of my uncle and aunt is beyond repayable. bringing her home and giving her that personal protection is such a massive sacrifice that years of gratitude wouldn’t even cut it. she’s literally with them now! if this massive good vibe doesn’t make her feel the weight of her actions now, then she basically won’t deserve any glow-ups later! what a moment for her when she first sees my aunt!”

“we gotta try to forget all the past drama on both sides,” said jane, “and i truly hope and trust they’ll be happy. his okaying the marriage is like, proof that he’s finally woke and on the right track. their mutual vibes will keep them solid; and i bet they’ll settle down so chill and logical that their wild past just fades away.”

“their actions have been so extra,” replied elizabeth, “that none of us—neither you, nor me, nor anyone—can just forget it. it’s pretty much a permanent watermark.”

it then hit the girls that their mom was probably totally clueless about all this wild tea. so they cruised over to the library and asked dad if he wanted them to spill the deets to her. he was busy scribbling and, without even looking up, coolly replied, “do what you want.”

“can we grab my uncle’s letter to read to her?”

“grab whatever and bounce.”

elizabeth snagged the letter from his desk, and together they headed upstairs. mary and kitty were chilling with mrs. bennet, so one group chat would cover it all. after a quick vibe-check to prep for the good news, the letter was read out loud. mrs. bennet could barely keep it together – as soon as jane read mr. gardiner’s hope that lydia would be hitched soon, her joy exploded, with every sentence ramping up the hype. she was literally buzzing with delight, just as much as she’d ever been twitchy from pure shock before. knowing her daughter was getting married was enough for her – no fear for her own glow-up, and not even a shadow of her past missteps.

“my dear, dear lydia!” she shrieked, “this is literally lit, no cap! she’s getting hitched, and i can’t wait to peep her again! she’s getting married at sixteen, fr fr! my good, kind bro, i lowkey knew it—i knew he’d handle all the deets. i’m so hype to see her, and to catch that fire wickham too! but yo, the fits, the wedding drip! imma slide into my sis gardiner’s dms about them ASAP. lizzy, babe, hustle to dad’s crib and ask how much he’s droppin’ for her. hold up, imma bounce myself. ring the bell, kitty, let’s get hill on it. imma grab my gear in a sec. my dear, dear lydia, how epic we’re gonna be when we squad up!”

her eldest daughter tried to chill the wild feels by steering her mind toward the obligations that mr. gardiner’s moves had loaded on them.

“bet, we gotta give this happy ending mad props,” she added, “all thanks to his kindness vibes. we’re lowkey convinced he’s sworn to drop some cash for mr. wickham.”

“yo,” cried her mom, “it’s all gucci; who else but her own uncle would do it? if he didn’t have his own fam, i and my kiddos would’ve snatched all his coin, fr. and this is the first time we’ve seen anything from him besides a few measly gifts. well! i’m hella hyped. in no time, my daughter’s getting hitched. mrs. wickham! how fire does that sound! and she was only sixteen last june. my dear jane, i’m so in a flutter right now i can’t even write; so imma dictate and you type it out. we’ll settle the coin sitch with dad later, but these threads gotta be ordered like, right now.”

she was about to spill all the tea on calico, muslin, and cambric – a whole load of orders – when jane, with major struggle, convinced her to chill until dad was free for a consult sesh. she noted that a one-day delay wouldn’t be a big deal, and her mom was too lit to be as stubborn as usual. plus, she got hit with even more wild ideas.

“i’ll bounce to meryton,” she declared, “once i’m drippin’ in my fit, to drop the epic news to my sis philips. and on my way back, imma hit up lady lucas and mrs. long. kitty, go sprint and call for the whip. a fresh air sesh would be major, i’m sure. girls, need anything in meryton? oh snap, here comes hill. my dude hill, did you catch the tea? miss lydia is getting hitched; and guess what? you all get a bowl of punch to vibe at her wedding.”

mrs. hill immediately started vibing with joy. elizabeth got hit with all the congrats along with everyone else, then—so over this madness—she high-key dipped into her own room to chill and think. poor lydia’s sitch was already a total hot mess, but since it wasn’t even worse, she had to be thankful. she seriously felt it; and while looking ahead none of the expected sane happiness or major wealth was on the horizon for her sis, when she looked back at the drama from just two hours ago, she could see all the epic upsides they’d snagged.

the spiteful old ladies.

chapter l.

r. bennet had mad regrets before this era—wishing he’d stashed a yearly stack instead of blowin’ his entire coin, so his kiddos and his wifey (if she was still vibin’) could be set. now, he was lowkey wishing harder than ever. if he’d done his part, lydia wouldn’t have had to lean on her uncle for any clout or respectability to flex on her now. getting one of the sketchiest young dudes in great britain to be her bae would’ve been handled proper.

he was seriously shook that such a trivial cause should be pushed solely on his bro-in-law’s dime; and he was dead set on figuring out exactly how much assist he was droppin’ and squashing that debt ASAP.

back when mr. bennet tied the knot, saving was considered totally useless—cuz obviously they were expecting a son. that son was supposed to hook up and cut off the entail once he came of age, so the widow and the little ones could be chillin’ on the cash. but one daughter after another popped off into the world—five in a row—and the son still never showed up; and mrs. bennet, even after lydia was born, was hella sure he’d come. eventually, that hope got ghosted, and it was too late to even start saving. mrs. bennet just wasn’t about that economy life; and hubby’s major independence vibes kept them from overspending their coin.

so, like, five grand was locked in via marriage contracts for mrs. bennet and the kiddos. but exactly how that cash would be split was totally on the parents’ flex. this was one point, at least for lydia, that now needed to be sorted, and mr. bennet was 100% down with the plan, no cap. as a nod to his bro’s kindness—even in a super short and sweet way—he put it on paper that he was totally cool with all the moves and ready to pay up what was promised. he never thought that if wickham could be convinced to marry his daughter, it’d be such a low-key hassle as this setup. he’d lose like barely ten pounds a year out of the hundred they’d drop; cuz with her meal money, pocket cash, and all the constant coin gifts flyin’ through mrs. bennet’s drip, lydia’s costs were minor compared to that stash.

realizing it’d be handled with so little effort on his part was another dope surprise; his main vibe at that moment was to keep it chill and skip any extra drama. once the initial fury that sparked him into action to score her was over, he slid right back into his classic lazy mode. his letter got sent out lickety-split; cuz even though he was slow to start on business, once he got going he smashed through it. he straight-up asked for more deets on what he owed his bro; but he was too steamed at lydia to drop her a text.

the epic tea spread like wildfire through the crib, and then the hood, with equal speed. in the neighborhood, folks kept it chill with solid philosophy. sure, it might’ve been a bigger convo flex if miss lydia bennet had ghosted town—or, best-case scenario, been locked up in some far-off farmhouse—but there was hella gossip about her hitching up; and all the sweet wishes from the spiteful old ladies in meryton stayed lit, since with a man like hers, her eventual drama was seen as a done deal.

it had been two weeks since mrs. bennet was last downstairs, but on this lit day she snagged the head spot at her table, riding high on those vibes. no sheepish feels could kill her flex. her daughter’s wedding—the ultimate goal she’d been hyped about since jane was sixteen—was about to drop, and all her chatter was on that classy wedding drip: dope muslins, fresh whips, and squad-level servants. she was out here scouting the neighborhood for an epic crib for her daughter; and without even peeping the bank balance, she dissed many as too weak on size and status.

“haye park could work,” she declared, “if the gouldings bounced, or if the big house at stoke came through with a larger drawing-room; but ashworth’s straight-up too far. i can’t deal with her bein’ ten miles away; and as for purvis lodge, the attics are just cringe.”

her hubby let her go off on her rant while the servants were still around. but when they bounced, he dropped, “mrs. bennet, before you nab any or all of these cribs for your son and daughter, let’s get one thing straight. not one house in this hood will be allowed for them. i’m not gonna fuel their extra behavior by letting them crash at longbourn.”

a long, heated debate went down after that drop; but mr. bennet was rock solid. it quickly escalated, and mrs. bennet was shook and horrified to find out that her hubby wasn’t willing to drop even a single guinea for new threads for his daughter. he straight-up said that she shouldn’t get any sign of affection from him on the big day. mrs. bennet couldn’t even wrap her head around it. that his anger could hit such next-level resentment—refusing his daughter a must-have glam perk without which her wedding vibes would be sus—was beyond anything she could imagine. she was way more tuned in to the scandal her lack of new drip would cause for her daughter’s nuptials than she was bothered by her own elopement and chillin’ with wickham a fortnight earlier.

elizabeth was totally gutted that, in the heat of the moment’s distress, she ended up spilling the tea to mr. darcy about their fears for her sis; cuz since her wedding was gonna erase the elopement drama super fast, they could hope to keep its messy start lowkey from anyone not right there in the moment.

she wasn’t even shook about it spreading further through his channels. there were only a few folks she’d trust to keep the tea on the down low; yet no one knowing about her sis’s fragility would make her cringe harder, no cap. and she wasn’t worried about any personal downside either; after all, there was a massive gap between them. even if lydia’s wedding had gone all honor and classy, it still wouldn’t make sense for mr. darcy to link up with a fam where every other beef would be piled on—especially with a mad-close alliance to the dude he legit dissed.

given that connection, she couldn’t be surprised if he dipped. her hope of snagging his approval—the very thing she’d been sure he had back in derbyshire—just couldn’t survive such a savage burn. she was humbled, crushed; she felt regret, even though she wasn’t totally sure why. she got all jelly over his rep since she couldn’t bank on any perks from it. she was thirsty for any deets about him whenever even a tiny bit of intel was up for grabs. she was convinced she could’ve been totally happy with him, if they weren’t so unlikely to ever meet again.

like, can you imagine his major flex if he knew that the proposals she proudly rejected just four months back would now have been received with mad gratitude! she had zero doubt he was as generous as any top-tier dude of his kind. but since he’s human, you bet there’d be a major payoff.

she started to peep that he was literally the man who, in vibes and skills, would perfectly complete her. his chill head and smooth temperament—though different from hers—would’ve ticked all her wish-list boxes. it was a union that would level up both of them: her chill liveliness could soften his mind and upgrade his manners, while his savvy and world smarts would drop some major life hacks for her.

but no happy marriage like that could now school the whole squad on what true marital bliss is. a totally different kind of union was about to drop in their fam, totally shutting down any other possibilities.

she couldn’t even picture how wickham and lydia would hold it down on their own in semi-independence. but she could totally speculate on how a couple thrown together solely because their wild passions overpowered basic decency would be low-key doomed to have little lasting happiness.

mr. gardiner slid back into his bro’s inbox real quick. in response to mr. bennet’s thanks, he hit back with a short, chill message, flexing his eagerness to boost any fam member’s well-being; and he capped it off by begging that the subject never be dropped again.

“i was totally hoping he’d dip from that corps,” he added, “right as soon as his wedding was locked in. and i’m betting you’re with me on thinking that peacing out of that squad is mad advisable for both his sake and my niece’s. mr. wickham’s planning to bounce into the regulars; and among his old homies, there’s still a few ready to back him in the army. he’s got a promise for an ensigncy in general——’s regiment, which is now posted up in the north. honestly, it’s a major win to have him hella far from this part of the kingdom. he’s straight-up promising; and i hope that among a different crew—where everyone’s guarding their rep—they’ll both be way more cautious. i hit up colonel forster to drop the deets on our current sitch and ask him to give mr. wickham’s creditors in and around brighton the 411 on speedy coin drops, for which i personally vouched. and could you run your own errand to deliver the same vibes to his creditors in meryton? i’ll attach a list based on his intel. he’s fessed up all his debts; i truly hope he hasn’t played us. haggerston’s got our orders, and everything’s gonna be wrapped up in a week. then they’ll link up with his regiment, unless they get an invite to longbourn first; and i heard from mrs. gardiner that my niece is super hyped to see all of y’all before she jets from the south. she’s doing good, and sends all the love to you and her mom.—peace, etc.

“e. gardiner.”

mr. bennet and his daughters caught all the perks of wickham bouncing outta the ——shire just as clearly as mr. gardiner did. but mrs. bennet wasn’t vibing with it. lydia getting set up in the north—at a time when she craved all the clout and pride from her crew (since she never even ditched her plan to stay in hertfordshire)—was a major letdown; and on top of that, it was a total bummer that lydia would be yanked from a regiment where she was tight with everyone and had a bunch of favs.

“she’s literally obsessed with mrs. forster,” she whined, “it’d be hella shocking to dip her! and there are a bunch of young dudes she’s super into, too. the officers in general——’s regiment probably aren’t as chill.”

her daughter’s request—to be welcomed back into the fam before she headed north—initially got a straight-up nope. but jane and elizabeth, all about keeping their sister’s feels in check so she’d get the fam’s kudos on her wedding, pressed him so earnestly, yet so chill and rational, to have her and her man crash at longbourn as soon as they tied the knot, that he eventually caved and went with their plan. and their mom was over the moon knowing she’d get to flex her married daughter in the neighborhood before she was exiled up north. so, when mr. bennet hit his bro up again, he dropped the green light for them to bounce over; and it was locked that, as soon as the ceremony wrapped, they were headed to longbourn. elizabeth, though, was lowkey surprised that wickham was even down for that move; and if it were up to her own vibe, she’d have never wanted any hang with him again.

with an affectionate smile.

chapter li.

heir sister’s wedding day finally dropped; and jane and elizabeth were hella extra about her—probably more than she was about herself. the whip was sent to scoop them up at ——, and they were slated to roll back by dinnertime. the elder miss bennets were lowkey terrified of their arrival—and jane especially, throwing all the feels at lydia that she’d get if she were the one responsible, and getting seriously upset thinking about what her sis had to endure.

they showed up. the fam gathered in the breakfast room to welcome them. mrs. bennet was flexing mega smiles as the carriage cruised up to the door; her hubby was rockin’ that deadpan, stoic look; and her girls were all anxious, edgy, and on edge.

lydia’s voice echoed from the vestibule; the door flew open, and she sprinted in. her mom bounced forward, scooped her up in a hug, and hyped her with pure, unfiltered joy; then she shook wickham’s hand with an affectionate grin as he trailed his lady; and wished them both outrageous joy, with a vibe that totally screamed happiness.

their welcome from mr. bennet, whom they then turned to, was far less warm. his face went full old-school stern, and he barely parted his lips. the young couple’s over-the-top chill vibes were enough to get under his skin.

elizabeth was totally disgusted, and even miss bennet was shook. lydia was lydia, period—untamed, unfiltered, wild, loud, and fearless. she bounced from one sister to another, demanding all the congratulations; and when they finally sat, she scanned the room like, noticing a few changes, and laughed, saying it had been ages since she’d been there.

wickham wasn’t even more stressed than she was; but his vibe was always on point—so that if his rep and his marriage were as righteous as they should be, his smiles and smooth talk while flexin’ their connection would’ve totally wowed everyone. elizabeth had never pegged him as worthy of that kind of confidence; but she sat down, deciding right then to never put limits on the cheekiness of a cheeky dude again. she blushed, and jane turned red too; but the two causing the commotion didn’t change a bit.

the convo flowed non-stop. the bride and her mom were chattering at lightning speed; and wickham, chillin’ near elizabeth, started casually asking about his old contacts around the hood with such breezy ease that she totally couldn’t match his vibe in her replies. they all seemed to be riding on the happiest memories ever. nothing from the past was recalled with any pain; and lydia freely dropped topics that her sisters would’ve never even dreamed of mentioning.

“just imagine, it’s been three months since i dipped,” she shrieked, “though it feels like just a hot minute, i swear; but damn, so much went down in that time. omg! when i bounced, i had zero clue about gettin’ hitched until i got back—though i did think it’d be mad fun if i was.”

her dad lifted his eyes, jane was visibly distressed, and elizabeth shot lydia a major look; but lydia—who’s never one to ignore the tea—cheerfully kept going, 

“oh, mamma, like, does everyone around here know i’m married today? i was lowkey scared they wouldn’t; and we literally caught william goulding in his curricle, so i had to make sure he got the memo—i totally dropped the side window next to him, ditched my glove, and casually rested my hand on the frame so he could peep the ring, then i bowed and flashed the biggest smile ever.”

elizabeth couldn’t take that tea anymore. she bolted outta the room and didn’t come back until she heard them strutting from the hall to the dining parlor. eventually, she rejoined the crew and peeped lydia, with all the anxious flair, strutting up to her mom’s right side, and hearing her tell her oldest sis, 

“ah, jane, i’m basically takin’ your spot now, and you gotta step down, cuz i’m officially married.”

it was not to be supposed that time would drop any cringe on lydia like before – she was totally free of that basic embarrassment. her chill vibes and bomb mood just skyrocketed. she was lowkey dying to squad up with mrs. philips, the lucases, and every other neighbor, just so she could get called “mrs. wickham” by each one of them; meanwhile, after dinner, she bounced off to flex her ring and brag hard about being hitched to mrs. hill and the two housemaids.

“well, mamma,” she chirped when they all rolled back into the breakfast-room, “how u feel about my hubby? isn’t he the ultimate vibe? i’m sure my sisters are lowkey jelly. i hope they can even grab half my good luck. they all gotta hit up brighton – that’s the go-to spot for scoring husbands. such a major bummer, mamma, that we didn’t all roll through!”

“very true; and if i had my way, we totally would’ve,” replied mamma, “but, my dear lydia, i ain’t feeling you bouncing off like that. does it really have to be so?”

“oh, lord! yasss; there’s literally nothing to it. i’m hella stoked about it. you, papa, and my sisters gotta come chill with us. we’re gonna be posted in newcastle all winter long, and i’m lowkey betting there’ll be some sick balls where i’ll snag top-tier partners for every single one of them.”

“i’d be down for that beyond anything!” mamma replied.

“and then, when y’all dip, you can leave one or two of my sisters behind; i’m positive i’ll score husbands for them before winter even checks out.”

“thanks for hooking me up with my share of the favor,” said elizabeth, “but i’m not exactly vibing with your method of husband-hunting.”

their visitors weren’t gonna crash with them for more than ten days. mr. wickham had snagged his commission before bouncing from london, and he was set to link up with his regiment at the end of a fortnight.

no one but mrs. bennet was lowkey salty that their stay would be so short; so she went full send using the time – jet-setting around with her daughter and throwing hella frequent parties at home. these bashes were a vibe for literally everyone; for some, dodging a full-on family circle was the ultimate glow-up.

wickham’s affection for lydia was exactly as elizabeth had peeped – not nearly as deep as lydia’s for him. barely needing her current observation, elizabeth was convinced that their elopement was all about lydia’s extra feels rather than any real deep vibe from him; and, fr, she’d be totally shook if the dude, who didn’t even care that hard about her, had chosen to yeet into eloping with her – had she not been 100% sure that his dash was forced by some major situational drama; and if that was the tea, then he wasn’t too proud to scoop up a companion when the chance came.

lydia was literally obsessed with him. he was her forever wickham, no cap; no one else even stood a chance. he was the absolute top-tier in everything, and she was hella sure he’d score way more wins on september 1st than any other dude in the country.

one morning, soon after they rolled into town, while she was chillin’ with her two elder sisters, she slid over to elizabeth and said, 

“lizzy, i never hit you with the deets about my wedding, i think. you weren’t around when i spilled all to mamma and the rest. aren’t you curious about how it all went down?”

“nah, really,” replied elizabeth, “i think there’s always room for more tea on that subject.”

“la! you are so extra! but i gotta dish out the tea on how it went. we got married, you know, at st. clement’s – since wickham’s crash pad was in that parish. and it was all set that we’d all be there by eleven o’clock. me, my uncle, and my aunt bounced together; and the rest were supposed to meet us at the church.”

“well, monday morning hit, and i was in a total frenzy! i was legit shook that something would pop off and delay everything, and then i’d be totally off my game. and there was my aunt, all the while i was getting ready – full-on preaching and chatting as if she were dropping a sermon. honestly, i caught barely one word out of ten ‘cause my mind was busy wondering about my dear wickham. i was dying to know if he’d even walk down the aisle rocking his iconic blue coat.”

“so, we grubbed at ten like always – and i seriously felt like breakfast would never end; ‘cause, btw, you gotta know my uncle and aunt were super irritating the entire time i was with them. believe it or not, i didn’t even step out once in the entire fortnight – not one party, or plan, or anything! sure, london was kinda meh, but, like, the little theatre was still open.”

“and right when the carriage rolled up to the door, my uncle got hit with a sudden biz call from that sketchy dude mr. stone. and then, you know, once those folks get together, it’s never over. i was so freaked out i didn’t know what to do, ‘cause uncle was supposed to walk me down the aisle; and if we passed the cutoff, we wouldn’t be married all day. but lucky for us, he bounced back in like ten minutes, and then we all dipped. later i figured that if he’d been held up, the wedding wouldn’t’ve been canceled – mr. darcy could’ve totally stepped in.”

“mr. darcy!” repeated elizabeth in pure amazement.

“oh, yasss! he was supposed to roll up with wickham, you know. but, omfg, i totally spaced on that! i legit shouldn’t have dropped a word about it. i promised to keep it 100% secret! what even would wickham say? it was meant to be a top secret!”

“if it’s supposed to be a secret,” said jane, “then zip it on that topic. you can count on me not to pry any further.”

“oh, certainly,” said elizabeth, though her curiosity was burning mad hot; “we won’t ask you any more questions.”

“thank you,” said lydia; “‘cause if you do, i’ll spill all the tea, and wickham will be seriously salty.”

after that sus invite, elizabeth had to yeet out of there.

but honestly, living in the dark about that deets was impossible; or at least, i couldn’t not dig for info. mr. darcy had been at my sister’s wedding – the ultimate scene where, like, he obviously had zero vibes to hang and zero temptation to roll through. wild theories started crash-landing in her brain, rapid and cray, but none of ‘em satisfied her. the ones that made his moves look hella noble were just too sus. i couldn’t handle the mad suspense; so i grabbed a sheet of paper and shot off a quick letter to my aunt, asking for the lowdown on what lydia just dropped, as long as it didn’t kill the secret vibes.

“yo, you gotta get how i’m literally overcurious about how some random out-of-our-squad stranger ended up chillin’ with y’all at that wild moment. hit me up ASAP with the deets—unless, for legit reasons, it’s meant to stay on the down low like lydia thinks; and then i guess i gotta deal with being in the dark.”

“not that i’m about to let it slide, tbh,” i scribbled to myself as i wrapped up the note; “and, my dear aunt, if you don’t spill it in a straight-up, respectable way, i’ll be forced to go full-on sneaky and pull off some crazy maneuvers to dig it out.”

jane’s delicate honor vibes wouldn’t let her slide the tea to elizabeth privately about what lydia let fly; and elizabeth was honestly pretty glad about that – until it was clear whether her sleuthing would even turn up any sauce, she’d rather be without a confidante.

imma bet she didn’t catch a damn word.

chapter lii.

lizabeth was super stoked to get a reply to her letter, like, as soon as humanly possible. no sooner had she clutched it than she bounced into this cute little copse—the one spot where interruptions were next to nada—plopped down on a bench, and got ready to get her happy on; ‘cause the sheer length of the letter was a total dead giveaway that it wasn’t a denial.

gracechurch street, sept. 6.

my dear niece,

i just copped your letter, and imma spend the whole morning firing back a reply cuz honestly, a little note ain’t gonna cover all the tea i gotta spill. i’m lowkey shook by your sudden message; i never expected you to be this nosy, so don’t get it twisted – i’m not mad, i just didn’t think i’d need to drop so many deets. your uncle’s as surprised as i am; only the idea that you’re somehow in the mix would have made him act so outta the blue. but if you’re truly chill and clueless about it all, i’ll break it down for you.

the very day i rolled back from longbourn, your uncle got hit with the most unexpected visitor. mr. darcy rolled up and ended up grinding with him for hours on end. swear, it was all wrapped up before i even landed; so, honestly, my curiosity wasn’t shattered as much as yours seems to be. he came by to let mr. gardiner know that he’d scoped out where your sister and mr. wickham were hangin’ and that he’d seen and talked with both of them—wickham on repeat, and lydia just once. from what i gathered, he bounced from derbyshire just one day after us, and rolled into town with one mission: to track them down. he claimed it was ‘cause he felt partly responsible for wickham’s total sketchiness being under wraps—like, if everyone knew how trash he was, no classy girl would ever slide into his dms. he owned up that it was all his messed-up pride, and admitted that he used to think his private biz was none of our damn business. his rep was meant to speak for itself, so he basically said he had to step up and try to fix the mess he’d made. if there was any other motive, i’m pretty sure it wouldn’t make him look any better. he spent a few days on the grind in town before he could track them down; he had some insider intel that we didn’t, and that only fired him up even more.

word is, there’s a lady—mrs. younge—who used to be miss darcy’s governess, but got the boot for some shady reasons he wouldn’t even spell out. she then copped a large crib on edward street and has been holding it down by renting out rooms. mrs. younge was, as he knew, super tight with wickham; so as soon as he hit town, he slid over to her for the tea on him. but it took her two or three days to pass on the info, ‘cause she wasn’t about to snitch without some serious coin or bribes – she totally knew where her buddy was hiding. wickham had already hit her up when he first rolled into london; and if she’d let them crash at her spot, they might’ve settled there. eventually, our kind friend did come through with the drop: they were posted on —— street. he spotted wickham, and then straight up insisted on seeing lydia. his first play with her, he admitted, was to convince her to ditch her current cringe situation and bounce back to her friends as soon as they could be convinced to take her back, offering all the help he could muster. but he found that lydia was dead set on staying right where she was. she wasn’t about taking any help, didn’t give a damn about her friends; she flat-out refused to leave wickham. she was 100% convinced they’d tie the knot eventually, and when it happened didn’t even matter. so, in his eyes, the only move left was to secure and fast-track a marriage—which, in his very first chat with wickham, he quickly learned was never really his plan. he admitted he had to bounce from the regiment because of some brutal honor debts; and he wasn’t shy about blaming all the mess from lydia’s wild escape on her own dumb moves. he was set to resign his commission immediately; and as for what came next, he was totally clueless. he knew he had to dip somewhere, but didn’t have a clue where, and was certain he’d be left with zilch to live on.

mr. darcy even asked why wickham didn’t just marry your sister on the spot. even though mr. bennet wasn’t exactly loaded, he could’ve helped wickham out, and marriage would’ve leveled up his whole situation. but when pressed, it turned out that wickham was still clinging to the idea of making a killin’ by marrying in some other country. under those wild circumstances, immediate cash relief was tempting as hell. they met up several times, ‘cause there was a mountain of stuff to discuss. of course, wickham wanted way more than what he could actually snag; but eventually, he had to come to his senses. once everything was squared away between them, mr. darcy’s next move was to loop your uncle in. he first hit up gracechurch street the evening before i got home. but mr. gardiner was nowhere to be seen; and mr. darcy later found out that your father was still chillin’ with him, and was set to dip out tomorrow morning. darcy didn’t vibe with consulting your dad—he felt your uncle was the proper go-to—so he easily postponed meeting your dad until after he bounced. he didn’t even drop his name, and until the next day, all we knew was that some gentleman hit up mr. gardiner on biz. on saturday, darcy came back again. your father was gone, your uncle was home, and as i mentioned, they had one massive talk. they linked up again on sunday, and then i even saw him. nothing was set in stone until monday: as soon as it was, an express was sent off to longbourn. but our visitor was stubborn as hell. i fancy, lizzy, that obstinacy is his major flaw, after all. he’s been called out for mad faults over time; but this is the real tea. nothing was ever done that he didn’t do on his own; though i’m pretty sure (and i’m not dropping this just to get props, so keep it on the low) that your uncle would’ve settled the whole thing if given the chance. they duked it out for what felt like forever—way more drama than either the gentleman or lady deserved. in the end, your uncle had to cave, and instead of being super useful to his niece, he got stuck with nothing more than token credit for it, which totally wasn’t his vibe; and i seriously believe your letter this morning made him extra hyped, ‘cause it forced him to explain stuff that stripped him of his fake clout and gave shoutouts where they were due. but, lizzy, this tea stays strictly between you and me (or at most jane). you already know the 411 on what went down with the youngins. wickham’s debts are gonna be cleared, totaling way over a thousand pounds, plus another thousand added to her tab, and his commission is fully paid off. the whole reason this was all handled by him solo is exactly what i mentioned above. it was all on him—his closed-off vibes and total lack of proper thought—that led to wickham’s rep being so off, and that he got all the attention he did. maybe there’s some truth there, but i seriously doubt that anyone’s reserved nature can really explain a whole mess like this. regardless of all the fancy chatter, my dear lizzy, rest easy knowing your uncle would’ve never bent if we hadn’t credited him with having an extra interest in the affair. once it was all settled, he bounced back to his homies still posted at pemberley; but it was agreed that he’d be back in london when the wedding popped off, and all the money dramas would get their final glow-up.

i believe i’ve spilled all the tea now. it’s a story that, as you said, is supposed to blow your mind; i just hope it doesn’t harsh your mellow too much. lydia came through, and wickham had constant access to the crib. he was exactly the same as when i first knew him in hertfordshire; but i won’t even go into how disappointed i was with her cray behavior while she was with us, especially since jane’s letter last wednesday confirmed that her homecoming vibes were just as off. i broke it down with her over and over, straight up laying out how messed up her moves were and all the unhappiness she dragged on the fam. if she caught any of it, then lucky for us, ‘cause i’m certain she totally ignored every word. i got pretty heated at times; but then i thought of my dear elizabeth and jane, and for their sakes, i chillaxed with her.

mr. darcy was dead-on punctual for his comeback, and as lydia already clued you in, he hit up the wedding. he had dinner with us the very next day, and was set to bounce again on wednesday or thursday. will you be super salty with me, my dear lizzy, if i take a sec to say (something i was never bold enough to drop before) just how much i vibe with him? his whole energy with us has been as lit as it was back in derbyshire. his takes and opinions are straight-up on point; he just needs a touch more spark, and if he marries wisely, his wife might just school him on that front. i always thought he was mad slick; he barely dropped your name. but being sly is totally the trend these days. forgive me if i come off extra or presumptuous, or at the very least, don’t ban me from p, aight? i’ll never really feel complete until i’ve cruised the whole park. a lowkey phaeton with a cute pair of ponies would be the ultimate flex. but i gotta wrap this up now – the kids have been waiting on me for like, half an hour.

yours, very sincerely,
m. gardiner

the contents of this letter had elizabeth on a total vibe rollercoaster, like her mood was straight up oscillating between major hype and deep feels—no cap, she couldn’t even tell if she was vibing high or getting hit with the pain, fr fr.

the shady, sus feels and half-baked doubts that uncertainty had brewed—about what mr. darcy might have been grinding on to boost her sis’s hookup game (which she lowkey feared to back, cuz it seemed like an over-the-top act of goodness that was just too extra to be real, yet equally cringe as a straight-up obligation)—turned out, without even stretching the truth, to be 100% on point!

mr. darcy had lowkey trailed them into town, taking on all the extra drama and cringe struggles that come with such sleuthing; like, he had to slide into a whole begging sesh with a woman he totally couldn’t stand and, lowkey, hated, and then he had to face—over and over—chat, reason, persuade, and finally even throw some coin at the dude he always wished to ghost, a guy whose very name was straight-up toxic to even think about saying.

he did all that extra grind for a girl he couldn’t even respect or vibe with properly. yet, deep down, her heart dropped the tea that he had done it for her. but that little hope got clapped by other realness; soon, she realized that even her own flex of vanity wasn’t enough to bank on his affection for her—especially when she’d already hit the eject button on him for being tied to wickham (brother-in-law of wickham, no cap! every bit of pride in her had to yeet that connection). sure, he went all out, and she was lowkey embarrassed by just how extra he got.

but yo, he had a legit reason for his interference that didn’t even need a wild stretch of the imagination. it was completely reasonable that he’d feel like he’d been wronged; after all, he’s got mad generosity and the coin to back it up. and even though she wasn’t about to crown herself as his number one inspo, she could kinda see that his leftover soft spot for her might boost his hustle in a cause that was, like, major for her peace of mind.

real talk—it hurt insane to know they were on the hook to someone who’d never even be able to pay it back. they owed, like, the total glow-up of lydia—her rep, her whole character—everything to him. oh, how hard she was feeling every ungracious vibe she had ever dished out, every snarky burn she had ever lobbed his way! for her own self, she was totally humbled; but at the same time, she was mad proud of him—proud that when it came down to real compassion and honor, he managed to level up and beat his own game.

she replayed her aunt’s hype speech about him on repeat. it wasn’t the whole saga, but it was fire enough to give her the feels. she even caught a bit of joy, albeit mixed with regret, knowing that both her and her uncle were 100% convinced that there was this secret glow of affection and trust bubbling between mr. darcy and her.

she was snapped out of her deep think sesh by someone rolling up; and before she could even shift her mental lane, wickham swooped in.

“yo, sorry to crash your solo vibe sesh, my dearest sis?” he chirped as he joined her.

“duh, ya do,” she shot back with a cheeky grin; “but that doesn’t mean the crash isn’t on point.”

“i’d be hella bummed if it wasn’t, fr. we were always lit fam, and now we’re next level.”

“facts. so, are the squad rolling out?”

“idk, fam. mrs. bennet and lydia are riding the whip to meryton. so, yo sis, got the tea from uncle and aunt that you legit peeped pemberley.”

she was like, “yep,” in the affirmative.

“i lowkey envy your drip, but i bet it’d be extra for me—or maybe i’d just flex my own newcastle vibes. and you peeped the OG housekeeper, right? poor reynolds, she was mad about me. but lol, she didn’t spill my deets to you.”

“facts, she did.”

“and what did she say?”

“she was like, ‘yo, you dipped into the army, and i was shook that it didn’t turn out lit—like, with that kind of distance, things get all twisted, ya feel?’”

“facts,” he agreed, biting his lip. elizabeth hoped that shut him up; but then he lowkey added,—

“i was shook to spot darcy in town last month. we kept bumping into each other, fr fr. like, what was he vibing with down there?”

“maybe he was sliding into prep for his nuptials with miss de bourgh,” elizabeth shot back. “it’s gotta be something major if he’s tripping down there this season.”

“bet. did you catch his look while at lambton? i heard from the gardiners that you totally did.”

“yup; he did a full intro with his sis.”

“so, you down with her?”

“hella, fr.”

“word on the street is she’s had a glow-up like crazy in the past year or two. last time i peeped her, she was kinda sus. i’m glad you’re vibing with her. hope she slays in the end.”

“i bet—she’s bounced past the rough patch, no cap.”

“did you dip through kympton village?”

“nah, my memory’s blank on that tea.”

“i mention it cuz it’s the vibe i always dreamed of. super lit spot! an epic parsonage—totally would’ve been my aesthetic, like 100%.”

“so, you think you’d’ve killed it droppin’ sermons?”

“mad well, i’d’ve smashed it. i’d have seen it as my duty, and the hustle would’ve been lowkey effortless. no cap, i wouldn’t whine about it; but, fr, it would’ve been a whole vibe for me! that chill, low-key life would’ve been my ultimate flex. but alas, not it. so, did you ever catch darcy dropping deets about that when you were kicking it in kent?”

“i heard from legit sources, which, like, seemed fire, that it was all conditionally yours, at the current boss’s call.”

“facts! there was deff something there; i told you from day one, remember?”

“i also heard that there was a time when you were totally not down with the sermon vibes like you are now; like, you straight up declared you’d never vibe with taking orders, and that whole scene got kinda wrecked because of that.”

“true! and honestly, i wasn’t just talking mad nonsense. remember what i laid down when we first spilled that tea?”

now they were lowkey at the door of the crib, coz she was fast-walking to dip from him; but for her sis’s sake, she didn’t wanna trigger him, so she just said with a chill, goofy smile,—

“come on, mr. wickham, we’re sibs, ya know. let’s not be beefing over old drama. for real, i hope we always vibe on the same wavelength going forward.”

she extended her hand; he planted a chivalrous kiss on it, all affectionate and whatnot—even though he was kind of clueless about the sitch—and then they bounced into the house.

mr. darcy with him.

chapter liii.

r. wickham was totally vibing with this chat so flawlessly that he never again bothered himself or riled up his dear sis elizabeth by sliding that convo back in; and she was hella happy to peep that she’d dropped enough truth bombs to keep him on mute.

the day came when his and lydia’s leave-the-scene moment dropped; and mrs. bennet was stuck with a full-on separation vibe, which—since her hubby wasn’t down with her newcastle escape plan at all—was gonna last at least a whole twelve-month cringe fest.

“oh, my sweet lydia,” she wailed, “when r we gonna link up again?”

“oh lawd, i dunno. maybe in like two or three years, idk.”

“write to me super often, my dear.”

“i’ll try my best. but u know, married women are like hella busy, tbh. my sis squad might hit me up though—they’re always free af.”

mr. wickham’s goodbyes were, like, way more heart-eye than his wifey’s. he was smiling, looking totally fine, and dropping all those pretty, sweet lines.

“he’s seriously one of the dopest dudes,” mr. bennet declared as soon as they bounced from the house, “one of the finest i’ve ever peeped. he’s got that simpering, smirking, all-around love-vibes on fleek. i’m hella proud of him. i dare even sir william lucas to come up with a better son-in-law—bet.”

mrs. bennet got super down in the dumps for days when her daughter dipped.

“i always feel, like, nothing sucks harder than splitting from your squad. life is mad lonely without them.”

“this is just the tea, madam, when you marry one of your girls,” elizabeth chimed in. “at least you can flex that your other four are still single—big win.”

“nah, it ain’t that. lydia isn’t ghosting me cuz she got hitched; it’s just that her man’s regiment is like waaay far, so she had to bounce. if it had been closer, she wouldn’t have dipped so quick.”

but yo, her energy-suck state got a glow-up soon as fresh tea hit the streets. the netherfield housekeeper got the orders to prep for her boss’s drop-in—he was coming in a day or two to shoot there for a few weeks. mrs. bennet was seriously on edge. she peeped jane, smirked, and then shook her head in alternating disbelief.

“well, well, so mr. bingley’s gonna slide down here, sis,” (since mrs. philips dropped the news) she announced. “cool beans. not that i’m even super hyped, coz like, he’s totally no biggie for us—and honestly, i probably never wanna peep him again. but btw, he’s totally invited to netherfield if he’s feeling it. and who knows what tea might spill? but that’s not our drama. remember, sis, we promised ages ago to keep it on the low. so frfr, he’s def coming?”

“trust, sis,” the other replied, “cuz mrs. nichols was in meryton last night. i peeped her cruising, and i even slid out to get the deets; and she confirmed, no cap. he’s dropping in by thursday at the latest, probs wednesday vibes. she was crashing the butcher’s on wednesday to cop some meat, and legit got like three pairs of ducks just waiting to yeet.”

miss bennet literally turned all shades when she caught wind of his arrival. it had been mad months since she’d dropped his name to elizabeth; but now, once they were alone, she goes,—

“i saw you peep that look at me today, lizzy, when my aunt spilled the tea; and i know i looked all sus and distressed—but trust, it wasn’t for no random reason. i was just shook for a sec, feelin’ like all eyes were on me. i promise you, the news isn’t sending my feels either way. what’s lit though is that he’s coming solo; cuz that means less of him on our radar. not that i’m lowkey scared for me, but i legit fear what the squad might say.”

elizabeth was like, idk what to even think. if she hadn’t caught him in derbyshire, she might’ve assumed he was just cruising in with no hidden tea; but she still peeped that he had leftover vibes for jane, and she was shook trying to figure out if he was rolling in with his friend’s blessing or just wild enough to slide in solo.

“yet, tbh, it’s mad weird,” she mused, “that this dude can’t even roll up to a legit rented crib without stirring up all the tea! i’ll just let him be.”

despite her sis’s claims and all the vibe she honestly felt about his arrival, elizabeth could totally peep that her mood was off—way more shaken and unequal than usual.

that topic which their folks went on about—like, a whole year ago—was suddenly the tea again.

“as soon as mr. bingley pops by, my dear,” mrs. bennet declared, “you gotta hit him up, no cap.”

“nah, nah. u dragged me to chill with him last year and swore that if i came thru, he’d end up marrying one of my daughters. but that went nowhere, and i’m not wasting my time on another fool’s run.”

his wifey broke it down, saying all the neighborly dudes expect that he gives mad attention on hitting up netherfield again.

“i legit despise that formal vibe,” he snapped. “if he wants our company, let him slide—he knows our crib. i’m not here chasing my neighbors every time they dip and then pull up, fr.”

“all i know is, it’d be straight up rude if u don’t hit him up. but as for dinner, i’m hellbent on inviting him over. we gotta round up mrs. long and the gouldings pronto. that’d be 13 in our squad, so there’d be just enough room for him, yeet.”

feeling some solace in that plan, she could kinda handle her hubby’s rudeness; even though it was super embarrassing thinking that the whole neighbor gang might peep mr. bingley before anyone else. as his arrival day got closer,—

“i’m starting to feel lowkey sorry he’s even coming,” jane whispered to her sis. “it wouldn’t be a big deal; i could totally peep him with zero feels; but i just can’t vibe with him being yapped about non-stop. mom’s heart’s in the right place; but she has no clue—nobody does—how much i cringe from her gossip. i’ll be lit once he bounces from netherfield!”

“i wish i could drop some comforting vibes for you,” elizabeth replied, “but tbh, it’s none of my league. u gotta feel it yourself; plus, i can’t even flex those patience pep talks on you since you already got mad feels.”

mr. bingley finally showed up. mrs. bennet, with some serious servant squad help, scored the breaking news ASAP so her anxiety could max out. she counted down the days till they could send an invite—losing hope of seeing him any sooner. but on day three after his hertfordshire landing, she peeped him from her dressing-room window, riding into the paddock and cruising straight toward the crib.

her daughters were hyped and summoned to share in her joy. jane stuck it out at the table like a boss; but elizabeth, tryna please mom, slid over to the window—peeped the scene—and spotted mr. darcy chilling with him, then came back to sit by jane.

“there’s a dude with him, mamma,” kitty piped up, “who dat?”

“probably some hookup or friend, babe; honestly, i don’t have the 411.”

“la!” kitty exclaimed, “it totally gives off the same vibe as that dude who used to roll with him—mr. what’s-his-name—that lanky, extra af guy.”

“oh my gawd! mr. darcy!—for real, i promise. like, any homie of mr. bingley’s is always welcome here, no doubt; but aside, i lowkey despise his look, straight up.”

jane shot elizabeth a look full of shock and concern. she barely caught the tea from their derbyshire hang, so she totally felt for the awkwardness her sis must be drowning in, seeing him almost for the first time after that long explanatory letter. both sisters were mad uncomfortable af—each feeling for the other, and for themselves. meanwhile, mom went on and on about how much she hated mr. darcy and declared she’d only be civil to him as mr. bingley’s friend, making sure neither sis caught wind of it. but elizabeth had her own secret triggers that jane could never even suspect—like, she never had the guts to show mrs. gardiner’s letter or spill her own changed vibes about him. to jane, he was just some dude whose proposals she yeeted and whose worth she totally underrated; but with her extra intel, he was the one who had hooked the whole fam up with their first win, and who she lowkey found herself interested in—if not as mushy, then at least as fair and proper as the way jane felt about bingley. her shock at his arrival—him dropping into netherfield, hitting up longbourn, and actually coming to see her again—was almost as intense as when she first caught his whole derbyshire glow-up.

the glow that had been ghosted from her face came back for a hot minute with extra shine, and a big smile lit up her eyes as she thought maybe his vibe and intentions were still rock solid; but, yo, she wasn’t feeling 100% secure.

“i need to peep his actions first,” she declared, “then i can decide if i wanna get hyped.”

she sat super focused, trying to keep it together without even daring to lift her eyes, until her overanxious curiosity forced her gaze to meet her sis’s face as the servant rolled up to the door. jane looked a bit paler than usual, but still way more chill than elizabeth expected. when the dudes showed up, jane’s color came back; still, she greeted them with decent vibes—no obvious bitterness or extra fake niceness.

elizabeth clammed up as much as politeness allowed and sat back down to her work with an unusual, almost hyper eagerness. she only stole one peek at darcy. as usual, he was all serious; and she figured he looked more like his all-hertfordshire self than the version she’d seen at pemberley. maybe, in mom’s presence, he just couldn’t drop his usual darcy drip like he did with uncle and aunt. it was a harsh, but not totally surprising, guess.

she also caught a flash of bingley looking all hyped and shy at once. mrs. bennet greeted him with such over-the-top civility that her two daughters felt lowkey embarrassed—especially since his friend got hit with an ice-cold, super formal welcome.

elizabeth, who totally knew that mom’s stiff act was because she owed that treatment to keep her fave daughter from straight-up infamy, was seriously hurt and mad distressed by that extra, off-key distinction.

darcy, after asking how mr. and mrs. gardiner were doing—a question that left her all kinds of confused—spat out barely any words. he wasn’t seated near her; maybe that was why he was ghost silent; but he wasn’t like that back in derbyshire, where he’d chat up her friends when he couldn’t go up to her directly. now, minutes ticked by in dead silence; and whenever she sneakily lifted her eyes, she’d peep him giving the same look to jane as he did to her, mostly staring at the floor. he was giving off major thoughtful, non-trying-to-please vibes compared to before. she was super bummed and mad at herself for being so extra affected.

“could it even be different?” she muttered. “but yo, why the heck did he actually show up?”

she was not in the mood to chat with anyone except him; honestly, she barely had the guts to drop a word in his direction.

she tried asking about his sis, but that was as far as she could muster.

“it's been ages, mr. bingley, since you bounced,” mrs. bennet declared.

he totally vibed with that.

“i was lowkey worried you’d never come back, fr. people were even whispering that you planned to dip out for good at michaelmas; but i hope that’s just fake news. a ton of changes went down in the hood while you were gone. miss lucas is hitched and settled—and one of my girls too. i bet you caught wind of that; you probably peeped it in the papers. it was in the 'times' and the 'courier', i know; though it wasn’t exactly how it should’ve been laid out. they only dropped, ‘lately, george wickham, esq., to miss lydia bennet,’ without even mentioning her dad or where she was from, or anything. that was my bro gardiner’s handiwork too, and i legit wonder how he made such a clunky mess of it. you see it?”

bingley was like, “yeah, i peeped it,” and dropped his congrats. elizabeth didn’t even dare lift her eyes, so she couldn’t even peep how mr. darcy was looking.

“it’s definitely a vibe to have a daughter married off fabulously,” her mom continued, “but at the same time, mr. bingley, it stings to have her snatched away from me. they’re off in newcastle—like, a place way up north it seems—and i don’t even know how long they’re gonna be there. his regiment’s posted there; i guess you heard about him ditching the ——shire and sliding into the regulars. thank goodness—he’s got some homies, though maybe not as many as he totally deserves.”

elizabeth, lowkey roasting herself 'cause she knew the shade was aimed at mr. darcy, was so shook with shame she legit couldn’t even sit still. but fr, her lips started spitting fire like never before, and she slid into asking bingley if he was gonna stick around in the sticks at the moment. he was like, “bet, a few weeks.”

“when you’ve offed all your own birds, mr. bingley,” her mom fired off, “i’m beggin’ you to roll on over here and blast as many as you want at mr. bennet’s manor. i’m pretty sure he’ll be hella down to hook you up, saving the dopest flock just for you.”

elizabeth’s cringe level hit a new high with that extra, obnoxious attention! if the same sweet vibes that got them hyped a year ago popped off now, she was convinced everything would be racing toward that mega annoying ending. in that moment, she felt that even years of good vibes couldn’t fix the epic cringe of such a hot mess.

“the first wish of my heart,” she whispered to herself, “is to ghost both of them for good. their hangouts can never make up for this tragic tea! i’m done – never wanna see either of them again!”

but yo, just when it seemed like endless drama with zero compensation, her mood got a quick buff when she peeped how her sis’s glow-up totally had her old flame coming back for more.

when he first rolled in, he was all quiet AF, but every five minutes he’d drop more attention bombs on her. he peeped that she was still on fleek like last year—still good vibes, chill, and 100% real, even if she wasn’t dishing out the same chatty energy. jane was lowkey stressing that no diff should show, and was convinced she was still chatting just as bomb; but her brain was so busy that she didn’t even notice when silence hit.

as soon as the bros bounced, mrs. bennet kept up her fake civility, and they got slid an invite to chow down at longbourn in a few days.

“mr. bingley, you’re literally in my debt,” she added, “'cause when you hit town last winter, you straight-up promised a fam dinner with us as soon as you bounced back. and i haven’t forgotten, you see; i was, like, mega disappointed you ghosted on that plan.”

bingley looked kinda cringey when called out, and went off about being blocked by business. then they dipped.

mrs. bennet was dead set on having them crash and dine there that same day; but even though she always flexed a bomb table setup, she figured nothing less than two-course vibes could ever be hype enough for a man she had extra designs on, or satisfy the munchies and ego of a dude rolling in ten grand a year.

jane happened to look round.

chapter liv.

as soon as they dipped, elizabeth bounced out to get her vibe back; or, like, to go off non-stop on the stuff that was only gonna kill her mood even further. mr. darcy’s energy was straight-up maddening and extra.

“yo, if he was only here to be silent, dead serious, and totally meh,” she muttered, “why even show up?”

she couldn’t figure that out in any way that didn’t twist her mood into knots.

“he could’ve been chill, still a vibe to my uncle and aunt when he was in town; so why not show some love for me? if he’s shook of me, why roll up? if he’s not feelin’ me, why hit mute? extra tease alert, man! i ain’t even gonna drop more thoughts on him.”

for a hot sec, her plan to ghost both of them stayed solid, until her sis slid over with a lit grin that screamed she was way more vibed out with the visitors than elizabeth was.

“now,” she said, “with this first meetup done, i got my chill back. i know my worth, and i’ll never get caught up in his drama again. i’m hella glad he’s dining here on tuesday. then everyone will see we’re just lowkey acquaintances, nothing extra.”

“yeah, super indifferent, fr,” elizabeth laughed. “oh, jane! seriously, take care.”

“my dear lizzy, you know i’m not so fragile as to be in danger rn.”

“girl, i totally think you’re on the fast track to making him fall as hard as ever.”

they ghosted the bros until tuesday; meanwhile, mrs. bennet was already vibing with all the extra tea that bingley’s chill and polite half-hour visit had revived.

on tuesday, longbourn was lit with a huge squad gathering; and the two who everyone was lowkey waiting on (props to their punctuality as sports legends) showed up on time. as they rolled into the dining room, elizabeth was peeping to see if bingley would claim his usual spot that jane always snagged at previous parties. her savvy mom, on the same wavelength, decided not to make him sit solo. as they stepped in, he hesitated for a hot second; but then jane looked around, flashed a smile, and boom—it was a done deal. he slid in right next to her.

elizabeth, feeling all triumphant and flexing, peeped at his bro. he just shrugged it off, all regal and chill; and she totally assumed that meant bingley was given the green light to be happy—if not for the fact she caught his eyes checking out mr. darcy with a half-laugh, half-panicked vibe.

during dinner, his vibe toward jane was straight-up admiring, even if he was playing it lowkey compared to before, which made elizabeth think that if left to his own devices, both jane’s and his happiness would be locked in fast. even though she wasn’t about to bank on it, watching his moves totally boosted her mood—even if she wasn’t in a bright one overall. mr. darcy, on the other hand, was literally as far as the table would let them be, chilling on the other side of her mom. she knew that sitch was not exactly giving either of them any extra glow or vibes. she couldn’t catch their convo from where she sat, but she totally peeped that they barely exchanged words and that whenever they did, it was all formal and freezing. her mom’s major lack of chill made elizabeth feel even more that they owed him big time; and sometimes, she’d have traded anything just to drop a line that his kindness wasn’t ghosted by the entire fam.

she was lowkey hoping that tonight would be the moment to bring them together; that the whole visit wouldn’t just vanish with stiff hellos but spark some real convo. super anxious and fidgety, the time spent in the drawing room waiting for the bros to roll in was so boring it nearly made her snap. she was like, “this is the key moment for my evening mood.”

“if he ain’t sliding into my vibe tonight,” she declared, “imma ghost him forever.”

the bros eventually rolled in; and she thought he might actually answer her vibe—but omg, the ladies had totally swarmed around the table where miss bennet was whipping up tea and elizabeth was pouring out the coffee, forming such a tight clique that there wasn’t even a spare chair near her. as the bros approached, one of the girls slid up extra close and whispered—

“the dudes ain't gonna break us apart, i'm dead set. we're not about them—yep?”

mr. darcy had dipped to another part of the room. she peeped him hard, lowkey envying everyone he talked to, barely mustering the patience to help someone with their coffee, then getting hella salty with herself for being such a goof!

“dude got ghosted before! how could i be dumb enough to expect a rerun of his love vibe? is there even anyone out there who wouldn’t be shook at the idea of a second proposal to the same girl? no cap, nothing could be more cringe to their pride.”

but yo, her mood got a mini boost when he came back, legit handing over his coffee cup himself; so she grabbed that moment to say—

“is your sis still posted up at pemberley?”

“yeah; she’s chillin’ there till christmas.”

“and she’s flying solo? did her whole squad dip?”

“mrs. annesley is still ride or die with her. the rest? they’ve been off hitting scarborough for the past three weeks.”

she ran outta things to say; but if he was tryna chat, he’d probably have better luck elsewhere. he just hung around for a few minutes in dead silence; and finally, when the young lady whispered to elizabeth again, he bounced.

when the tea gear got cleared and the card tables set up, all the ladies bounced; and elizabeth was lowkey hoping he’d join her soon, but then her whole vibe was wrecked when she saw him get caught up in her mom’s mad flex for whist players, only to be scooped up by the rest of the crew moments later. her hopes for a fun night were totally ghosted. they ended up at different tables, and she could only hope that his eyes would keep wandering back to her side of the room so he’d end up playing just as clumsily as she felt.

mrs. bennet was all about keeping the two netherfield bros for supper; but sadly, their ride was scheduled before anyone else’s, so she had zero chance to hold them up.

“alright, girls,” she started once they had the room to themselves, “what’s the tea on today? i gotta say, everything went off super smoothly. the dinner was dressed to kill—seriously, one of the best i’ve peeped. the venison was roasted on point—and everyone was like, ‘no cap, never seen such a juicy haunch before.’ the soup? like, fifty times better than what we chowed on at the lucases’ last week; and even mr. darcy admitted that the partridges were lit—I mean, he probably has two or three french chefs, fr. and, my dear jane, i’ve never seen you glow so hard. mrs. long even said, when i asked her, ‘ah! mrs. bennet, at last netherfield’s gonna score her!’ and she totally did. i swear, mrs. long is as cool as they come—and her nieces are super cute, like, behaved af, and not extra at all: i’m totally here for them.”

“mrs. long and her nieces.”

long story short, mrs. bennet was on cloud nine: she’d peeped enough of bingley’s vibe with jane to be 100% sure she’d snag him eventually; and her sky-high hopes for a family upgrade when things were happy were so extra that she was mega disappointed he wasn’t back the very next day to drop his proposal.

“today was super lit,” miss bennet told elizabeth. “the squad was on fleek, and everyone just clicked perfectly. i hope we can vibe like this again.”

elizabeth smiled.

“lizzy, don’t even think that. you can’t be suspecting me. it kills my vibe. i promise i’ve leveled up to enjoy his chat as this chill and smart dude, without expecting any extra romance. i’m totally cool, from how he acts now, that he never planned to hook me up. it’s just that he’s blessed with mad charm and an extra drive to please, more than any other dude.”

“girl, you are so cruel,” her sis shot back, “you won’t let me smile, and you’re pushing me to do it even more every single moment.”

“it's so extra sometimes to be believed! and then in other cases it’s straight-up impossible! but why you tryna convince me that i'm feeling more than i admit?”

“that’s a question i seriously don’t even know how to answer. we all love to school each other, even if we can only drop knowledge on stuff that’s kinda trivial. forgive me; and if you keep being all cold, don’t even make me your confidante.”

“lizzy, my dear, i gotta chat with you.”

chapter lv.

a few days after that visit, mr. bingley popped in again, solo. his mate had bailed to london that morning, but was set to be back in ten days. he chilled with them for over an hour, looking absolutely upbeat. mrs. bennet invited him to dine with the fam; but, with a bunch of apologetic vibes, he admitted he was already booked elsewhere.

“next time you hit us up,” she said, “i hope we get better luck.”

he was totally down to be in a good mood anytime, etc., etc.; and if mrs. bennet gave him the nod, he’d jump at the first chance to come by.

“can you roll by tomorrow?”

he was like, “yeah, i’m free tomorrow,” and her invite was accepted mad quickly.

he showed up, and like, he was so early that the ladies hadn’t even gotten dressed. mrs. bennet burst into her daughters’ room in full dressing-gown mode, hair half-fixed, yelling—

“my dear jane, hustle up and get down here. he’s here—mr. bingley is here. for real. hustle, hustle. hey, sarah, slide over to miss bennet right now and help her fix her gown. don’t worry about miss lizzy’s hair.”

“we’ll be down asap,” jane said; “but tbh, kitty is always extra—she bounced upstairs like 30 minutes ago.”

“oh, forget kitty! what does she even matter? come on, be quick, be quick! where’s your sash, girl?”

but once her mom bounced, jane was like, “i ain’t moving down without one of us.”

that same desperate drive to get them alone popped up again in the evening. after tea, mr. bennet bounced to the library (as usual), and mary rolled upstairs to work on her instrument. with two of the five obstacles out of the way, mrs. bennet sat there, throwing winks at elizabeth and catherine like she was dropping secret dms, but it totally didn’t land. elizabeth straight-up ignored her; and when kitty finally noticed, she asked all innocent-like,

“what’s up, mamma? why you throwing winks at me? what should i even do?”

“nothing, child, nothing. i didn’t even wink at you.” then she sat there for like five more minutes; but not wanting to waste such a prime moment, she suddenly bounced up and said to kitty—

“come over here, babe, i gotta talk to you,” pulling her out of the room.

jane shot elizabeth a look that screamed pure distress—pleading her not to fall for this drama—and a few minutes later, mrs. bennet half-opened the door and shouted—

“lizzy, my dear, i gotta chat with you.”

elizabeth had no choice but to bounce over.

“we might as well let them chill solo, ya know,” her mom said once she hit the hall. “kitty and i are bouncing upstairs to my dressing-room.”

elizabeth didn’t even try to reason with her; she just stayed in the hall until her mom and kitty were out of sight, then slid back into the drawing room.

mrs. bennet’s schemes for the day were total flops. bingley was, like, charming AF—even though he wasn’t officially crowned as her daughter’s bae. his chill, sunny vibes made him a dope addition to the evening squad; and he put up with her mom’s clueless bossiness, taking all her goofy remarks with a chill, boss-level composure that had daughter super grateful.

he barely even needed an invite to stick around for supper; and before he bounced, an agreement was made—mostly thanks to him and mrs. bennet—that he’d roll through the next morning to go shooting with her hubby.

after that day, jane kept her chill about bingley—no more words dropped between the sisters about him; but elizabeth crashed to bed thinking that everything would wrap up super fast, unless mr. darcy popped back up within the set time. yet lowkey, she was also convinced that all that wild drama had gone down with that gentleman’s blessing.

bingley showed up bang on for his appointment; and he and mr. bennet spent the morning together just as planned. turns out, mr. bennet was way more chill than bingley thought. there wasn’t any extra foolishness in bingley that could have triggered mr. bennet’s roast or sent him into a silent side-eye; he was actually more chatty and less extra than mr. bennet had ever seen him. obviously, bingley bounced back with mr. bennet for dinner; and by evening, mrs. bennet’s crazy schemes were at it again—this time to split up him and her daughter.

elizabeth, who had a letter to pen, slid into the breakfast room right after tea; since the rest were off to card games, they didn’t need her to foil her mom’s plots.

but when she bounced back into the drawing room, letter done, she got mega shook—like, maybe her mom was too clutch with her schemes after all. opening the door, she peeped her sis and bingley chilling together by the hearth, deep in convo; and even if that didn’t set off any alarms at first, the look on both their faces, as they quickly spun and slid away from each other, spelled it all out.

their sitch was awkward enough; but she felt hers was even worse. not a single word was dropped by either, and elizabeth was about to dip again when bingley—who had been sitting with them too—suddenly popped up, whispered a few words to her sis, and bounced out of the room.

jane couldn’t hold back any longer and wrapped elizabeth in a huge hug, spilling her guts with all the hype that she was, like, the happiest person ever.

“this is too much!” she added, “like, way too extra. i don’t deserve it. omg, why isn’t everyone catching good vibes?”

elizabeth’s congrats were served with such real feels, warmth, and pure joy that words could barely do them justice. every kind word was like a fresh hit of happiness for jane. but she wasn’t about to stick around and spill all her feels for the moment.

“i gotta bounce to my mom right now,” she cried. “i can’t ever mess with her loving vibes or let her hear this from anyone but me. he’s already rolled over to my dad. oh, lizzy, knowing my news is gonna boost the whole fam’s mood so hard—how am i supposed to handle all this happiness?”

she then dipped straight to her mom, who had purposely broken up the card party and was chilling upstairs with kitty.

left to her own, elizabeth smiled at how fast and easy the drama finally got wrapped up, after months of pure suspense and lowkey stress.

“and this,” she declared, “is the final clap-back to all his friends’ anxious overthinking! to all his sis’s extra false moves and scheming! the happiest, most lit, and totally sensible ending!”

in a few minutes, bingley joined her, his chat with her dad being short and on point.

“where’s your sis?” he asked quickly as he opened the door.

“she’s upstairs with my mom. she’ll be down in a hot minute, i bet.”

he then shut the door, strolled up to her, and claimed that sisterly vibe like a boss. elizabeth, for real, was totally hyped about the potential of their bond. they shook hands all cordial, and until her sis came down, she had to listen to him spill all about his own happiness and sing jane’s praises; and even though he was all in on the lover life, elizabeth seriously believed that his expectations of pure joy were totally on fleek—‘cause they were built on jane’s dope understanding, extra sweet vibe, and a mad similarity in feels and taste between him and jane.

it was a night that wasn’t just average fun for everyone; miss bennet’s pure satisfaction lit up her face, making her look way more on point than ever. kitty was all smiles, lowkey simpering in hopes her turn would come soon. mrs. bennet couldn’t quite drop a proper “yes” or express her approval in words warm enough for her feels—even though she chatted with bingley non-stop for like half an hour; and when mr. bennet joined them at supper, his tone and vibe clearly screamed how genuinely hyped he was.

not a word, however, slipped from his lips about it until their visitor dipped for the night; but the second he bounced, he turned to his daughter and said,  
 
“jane, big congrats—i’m lowkey hyped for you. bet you’re gonna be hella happy, no cap.”  

jane slid up to him instantly, planted a kiss, and showered him with thanks for his pure goodness.  

“you’re such a good girl,” he replied, “and i’m straight-up vibing on the thought that you’ll be set up and living your best life. i ain’t got any doubt that y’all will click perfectly. your tempers? they’re on the same wavelength—both of you are so chill that nothing ever gets locked down; so easygoing that even every servant could totally play you; and so generous that you’ll always flex way more than your bank’s basic deposit.”  

“i hope not, because being reckless with money is a major no-no in my book.”  

“exceed your income? my dear mr. bennet,” his wife shrieked, “what are you even on about? like, he’s pulling in four or five grand a year, maybe even more, fr fr.” then, turning to jane, “oh, my dear, dear jane, i’m so hyped! i’m sure i won’t catch a wink of sleep tonight. i knew it would go down like this. i always said it had to happen eventually—I was dead certain you couldn’t be that gorgeous for nothing! i remember the moment i peeped him when he first rolled into hertfordshire last year, i was like, ‘yo, these two are totally meant to vibe together.’ damn, he’s the hottest dude ever, no cap!”  

wickham and lydia? they were totally ghosted. jane reigned supreme as the undisputed fave child—in that moment, no one else was even on her radar. soon enough, her younger sisters started sliding in, fishing for deets on the happiness they hoped she could someday dish out.  

mary went full petition mode to snag use of the netherfield library; and kitty was straight-up begging for a few epic winter balls there every season.  

bingley, from that point on, became the daily flex at longbourn; rolling in pre-breakfast and sticking around until after supper—unless some barbarous neighbor (seriously extra and ultra-detested) hit him up with a dinner invite, which he totally felt obliged to accept.  

elizabeth soon had barely any time for chit-chat with her sis; because whenever bingley was around, jane was all eyes on him alone. still, jane turned out to be a major utility player for both of them during those inevitable solo hours. when jane was off the grid, bingley would naturally gravitate toward elizabeth for some convo vibes; and when bingley dipped, jane was always scouting for the same kind of relief.  

“he made my whole day,” she spilled one evening, “by saying he had zero clue i was in town last spring! i legit couldn’t believe it.”  

“i kinda saw it coming,” elizabeth shot back, “but how did he even explain that?”  

“definitely his sisters’ hustle. they were hella not down for him linking with me—which, no cap, i can’t really blame him; he had way better options anyway. but when they see, as i’m hoping they will, that their bro is mad happy with me, i bet they’ll chill and we’ll be all good again—even if things can never go back to what they once were.”  

“that’s literally the harshest roast i’ve ever heard from you. solid girl! i’d be seriously heated to see you get played by miss bingley’s fake vibes again.”  

“would you believe it, lizzy, that when he hit town last november, he was legit in love with me—and the only thing that would’ve kept him from coming back was thinking i was totally meh?”  

“he did slip up a bit, for real; but mad respect to his low-key modest vibe.”  

this naturally sparked a full-on praise sesh from jane about his diffident aura and how he barely gave any credit to his own dope qualities.  

elizabeth was lowkey stoked to find that he hadn’t snitched on his buddy’s meddling; for even though jane had the most extra generous and forgiving heart in the world, she knew that tea would eventually throw some shade on him.  

“i’m literally the luckiest creature ever!” cried jane. “oh, lizzy, why am i the one who’s totally glowing above the rest of the fam? if only i could see you riding that happy train! if only there were a dude like that for you!”  

“if you dropped forty of those dudes on me, i’d still never be as lit as you. i can’t catch your level of straight-up happiness until i snag your vibes and heart. nah, i gotta do me; and maybe, if my luck is bangin’, i might even score another mr. collins down the line.”  

the tea in the longbourn fam was gonna spill fast. mrs. bennet got her VIP pass to dish it out to mrs. philips, and she didn’t even wait for permission before spreading it to all her meryton neighbors.  

in no time, the bennets were hailed as the luckiest fam in the world—even though just a few weeks back, when lydia peaced out, everyone thought they were doomed to misfortune.  

chapter lvi.  

one fine morning, about a week after bingley’s engagement with jane was locked in, while he and all the ladies of the fam were chillin’ in the dining room, a sudden noise at the window had them looking up—some carriage was clattering by. they peeped a chaise and four rolling up the lawn. it was mad early for visitors; plus, that ride didn’t match any of the neighbor vibes. the horses were all post, and neither the carriage nor the uniform of the servant leading it was familiar at all. but yo, one thing was clear—someone was coming. bingley immediately convinced miss bennet to ditch the room with him and bounce into the shrubbery. they dipped, and the remaining three kept throwing out wild guesses, barely satisfied, until the door slammed open and in strutted their guest. it was lady catherine de bourgh.  

they were all tryna fake a surprised look, but damn, their shock went way beyond expectations; and mrs. bennet and kitty were shook by her presence—even more than elizabeth was.  

lady catherine rolled into the room with seriously ungracious vibes, barely even nodding at elizabeth’s hello before sitting down without a single word. elizabeth had already tagged her name to her mom when ladyship strolled in, even though no one asked for an intro.  

mrs. bennet, totally amazed yet lowkey hyped to have such a high-key guest, played extra polite. after a moment of awkward silence, she said in a stiff tone to elizabeth,  
 
“i hope you are well, miss bennet. that lady, i suppose, is your mother?”  

elizabeth shot back short and sweet, “yup, she is.”  

“and that, i suppose, is one of your sisters?”  

“yes, madam,” mrs. bennet chirped, totally stoked to chat with lady catherine. “she’s my second youngest—my littlest one just got hitched, and my eldest is out there, strolling with some young guy who, i believe, is gonna be part of our squad real soon.”  

“yo, you got a mad tiny park here,” lady catherine snapped after a brief pause.  

“it ain’t even close to rosings, my lady, i swear; but real talk, it’s way bigger than sir william lucas’s turf.”  

“this sitting room is seriously sus for a summer evening—the windows are all facing west, deadass.”  

mrs. bennet reassured her that they never crashed there after dinner; then she added,  
 
“may i take the liberty of asking your ladyship: did you leave mr. and mrs. collins on a good note?”  

“yeah, all good. i peeped them the night before last.”  

elizabeth figured lady catherine was about to whip out a letter from charlotte—like that was her main flex for dropping by. but no letter came out, and she was totally bamboozled.  

mrs. bennet, ever so polite, begged her ladyship to grab some refreshment; but lady catherine, super extra and not really in a sharing mood, straight-up declined any munchies. then, hopping up, she told elizabeth,  
 
“miss bennet, i noticed a pretty chill little wilderness on one side of your lawn. i’d be down to take a stroll in it, if you’d be a star and join me.”  

“go on, babe,” her mom hollered, “and give lady catherine the grand tour of your walks. i think she’ll totally vibe with the hermitage.”  

elizabeth was down for it; she dashed to snag her parasol from her room and then headed to assist her noble guest downstairs. as they cruised through the hall, lady catherine swung open the doors to the dining parlour and drawing room, gave them a once-over, declared them lowkey decent, and kept on walkin’.  

her carriage stayed parked by the door, and elizabeth peeped that her ride-chick was in it. they cruised in silence along the gravel path leading to the copse; elizabeth was dead set on not wasting any energy on chatting with a woman who, at that moment, was being extra insolent and majorly disagreeable.  

“how could i ever think she’s as cool as her nephew?” someone muttered, throwing a savage side-eye as she looked at lady catherine.  

once they bounced into the copse, lady catherine kicked off,  
 
“miss bennet, you ain’t gonna be lost on why i pulled up here. your own heart and vibes are already spilling the tea on why i had to roll over.”  

elizabeth peered at her with straight-up deadpan awe.  

“indeed, you got it twisted, madam; i seriously can’t account for the honor of seeing you here,” elizabeth replied.  

“miss bennet,” her ladyship snapped, her tone biting, “you gotta know i’m not someone to mess with. no matter how fake or extra you try to act, you’ll never catch me being insincere. my rep for straight-up realness is legendary; and in a sitch this major, i’m not deviating one bit. two days ago, a hella wild rumor hit me. they were saying that not only was your sister about to snag a lit marriage, but you—yes, miss elizabeth bennet—would soon be hooking up with my nephew, mr. darcy, my very own nephew. even though i know it’s probably a scandalous cap, and i’d never diss him enough to think it’s legit, i bounced immediately to this spot to drop my truth on you.”  

“if you honestly think that rumor is impossible,” elizabeth fired back, a mix of shock and disdain coloring her tone, “i seriously wonder why you put in the effort to come all this way. what exactly is your play?”  

“i’m here to insist that that rumor gets shut down everywhere, period.”  

“your coming to longbourn to see me and my fam,” elizabeth replied coolly, “basically confirms the tea—if that rumor even exists, lol.”  

“if?! so you’re gonna act like you never heard it? haven’t you all been busy spreading that tea yourselves? don’t you know it’s blowing up everywhere?”  

“i literally never caught wind of it.”  

“and can you also swear there’s zero legit foundation for it?”  

“i’m not claiming to be as brutally honest as you, your ladyship. you can fire off any questions, but i’m not gonna answer some of 'em.”  

“this isn’t acceptable. miss bennet, i demand to be satisfied: has my nephew actually slid you a marriage proposal?”  

“your ladyship already made it clear that’s a total no-go.”  

“it should be that way—as long as he’s keeping his brain in check. but maybe your charms got him so extra in a crush moment that he forgot his duties to himself and fam. maybe you did reel him in.”  

“if i did, i’d be the last one to confess it.”  

“miss bennet, do you even know who i am? i’m not used to being talked to like this. i’m literally his closest kin, so i’ve got every right to know what’s up with him.”  

“but you sure as heck aren’t entitled to my business—and no amount of this shady talk is gonna make me spill.”  

“listen real clear: this match you’re dreaming of? it’s never, ever gonna happen. period. mr. darcy is off the market—he’s engaged to my daughter. now, what do you have to say about that?”  

“i only say that if that’s the deal, then there’s zero reason to think he’d ever propose to me.”  

lady catherine paused for a hot sec, then came back with,  
 
“their engagement is on a next-level vibe. from the get-go, they were meant to be. it was the fave wish of his mom, and of hers too. even when they were in their cradles, we were scheming their union; and now, when both sisters’ dreams are about to drop, are you really gonna block it because you’re a girl with a totally basic background, with zero clout in the fam? don’t you care about his friends’ wishes—to his silent commitment with miss de bourgh? are you so off your rocker that you disregard every bit of propriety and decency? didn’t i already say that from the start, he was destined for his cousin?”  

“yeah, i heard all that before. but so what? if there’s no other beef with me marrying your nephew, i’m not about to be stopped just because his mom and aunt wanted him to marry miss de bourgh. you both did all you could in planning that match—its final seal was always gonna rely on others. if mr. darcy isn’t totally honor-bound or head-over-heels for his cousin, why can’t he choose someone else? and if i happen to be that someone, why can’t i go for it?”  

“because honor, decorum, prudence—and yeah, even interest—straight up forbid it. yes, miss bennet, interest; don’t even think you’ll get noticed by his fam or his crew if you blatantly go against everyone’s wishes. you’ll get roasted, slighted, and despised by everyone connected to him. your hookup would be a total disgrace; your name would be too dirty to even whisper among us.”  

“that’s a major bummer,” elizabeth shot back, “but mr. darcy’s wife is obviously gonna have some next-level sources of happiness built right into her setup—so overall, she wouldn’t have any legit reason to be pissed.”  

“stubborn, extra girl! i’m lowkey ashamed of you! is this how you repay my vibes from last spring? not even a single thank you? sit down. you gotta understand, miss bennet, i came here with a boss-level determination to get my point across—i’m not gonna be swayed by anyone’s whims. i’m not used to bowing down or taking disappointment lying down.”  

“that might make your ladyship’s vibe even more pathetic, but trust, it ain’t gonna affect me.”  

“i’m not about to be cut off! listen up in silence: my daughter and my nephew are totally made for each other. on the maternal side, they come from the same highly noble line; and on the paternal side, they hail from legit, honorable, time-honored (though untitled) families. both sides are dripping in fortune. they’re destined for each other by the word of everyone in their houses; and what could possibly come between them?—except the extra, upstart pretensions of a girl without proper fam, connections, or coins! can you really let that slide? it absolutely cannot, and it will not! if you had any self-respect, you wouldn’t even dream of leaving the sphere you were raised in.”  

“if i marry your nephew, i ain’t ditching that world. he’s a gentleman; i’m a gentleman’s daughter; that makes us on the same level, period.”  

“true—you are a gentleman’s daughter. but what about your mother? who exactly are your uncles and aunts? don’t think i’m clueless about their deal.”  

“whatever my fam connections may be,” elizabeth shot back, “if your nephew isn’t tripping over them, then they mean nothing to you.”  

“tell me, once and for all, are you engaged to him?”  

even though elizabeth wasn’t about to answer just to humor lady catherine, after a moment’s thought she finally said,  
 
“i’m not.”  

lady catherine looked lowkey pleased.  

“and will you promise me that you’ll never, ever jump into such an engagement?”  

“i’m not making any promises like that.”  

“miss bennet, i am shocked and astonished. i expected to meet a more reasonable young woman. but don’t fool yourself into thinking i’ll ever back down. i won’t leave until you give me the assurance i demand.”  

“and i’m definitely never gonna give that promise. i’m not about to be intimidated into something completely unreasonable. your ladyship wants mr. darcy to marry your daughter; but would my dropping that promise even boost their chances? if he’s really into me, would me shutting the door make him wanna propose to his cousin instead? let me tell you, lady catherine, the arguments you’ve thrown down for this wild idea are as extra as the idea itself is ill-conceived. you’ve totally got my character twisted if you think i can be swayed by this kind of mumbo-jumbo. i can’t even say how much your nephew might be cool with your meddling in his biz, but you absolutely have no right to interfere with mine. i must beg you to not hit me up about this any further.”  

“hold up, don’t be so quick—I’m by no means finished. on top of every objection i already laid out, i’ve got more to add. i’m no stranger to the deets of your youngest sister’s infamous elopement. i know the whole tea: that dude marrying her was a patched-up deal, and it cost your father and uncle big time. and seriously, is that the kind of girl who should be my nephew’s sister? is her husband, who happens to be the son of his late father’s steward, supposed to be his bro? heaven and earth, of all things!—what are you even thinking? are you really cool with the idea of tarnishing the vibes of pemberley like that?”  

“you’ve got nothing more to say now,” she snapped resentfully. “you’ve insulted me in every way possible. i’m out—I need to head back into the house.”  

she rose as she spoke, and lady catherine also got to her feet; the two of them turned back, with lady catherine looking hella incensed.  

“you seriously don’t give a damn about my nephew’s honor and rep! you unfeeling, selfish girl! don’t you realize that a connection with you would totally drag his name through the mud in everyone’s eyes?”  

“lady catherine, i have nothing more to say. you know my vibes.”  

“so you’re totally set on having him?”  

“i never said that. i’m just determined to do what, in my own eyes, makes me happy—without it having anything to do with you or anyone else totally off my radar.”  

“fine then. you’re choosing not to play by my rules. you’re straight-up refusing to obey the demands of duty, honor, and gratitude. you’re set on wrecking his rep with all his friends and making him a total laughingstock in the world.”  

“neither duty, nor honor, nor gratitude—none of that holds any claim over me right now,” elizabeth fired back. “not a shred of those principles would be crossed by my marriage with mr. darcy. and as for his family’s wrath or the world’s outrage, if they even get lit over him marrying me, i couldn’t give a single minute’s thought—and honestly, the world would be too woke to join in the shade anyway.”  

“so that’s your real opinion! that’s your final stance! very well—I now know exactly how to act. don’t you dare think, miss bennet, that your ambition will ever get a glow-up. i came here to test you, hoping to find a reasonable young woman; but believe me, i’mma carry my point home.”  

lady catherine kept ranting like that until they reached the carriage door; then, turning in a mad hurry, she added,  
 
“i take no leave of you, miss bennet. i’m not sending any compliments to your mother—you don’t deserve that kind of attention. i am most seriously displeased.”  

elizabeth clammed up and, without even trying to persuade lady catherine to head back inside, strolled quietly in herself. she heard the carriage roll away as she headed upstairs. her mother, all impatient at the door of her dressing-room, hounded her, asking why lady catherine wouldn’t come back to rest.  

“she didn’t choose it,” elizabeth replied coolly; “she just dipped.”

she's a total vibe, looking hella fine, no cap! and her drop-by was super polite and extra – like, she only pulled up, i guess, just to hit us with the news that the collinses were all good. she's out there cruisin' in her own lane somewhere, i dare say; and so, while rollin' through meryton, she thought, “yo, imma slide by and say what’s up.” i guess she wasn’t lowkey packin’ any extra spicy tea just for you, lizzy?

elizabeth had to drop a little cap there, cuz lowkey admitin' the real tea from their convo was just not an option, fr.

but now it comes out.

chapter lvii.

the wild energy of that extra visit had elizabeth totally shook – she couldn’t shake the feels for hours, thinkin’ about it on a constant loop. turns out, lady catherine actually went through all the hassle of buggin’ from rosings just to yeet her so-called engagement with mr. darcy into the trash. it was a pretty logical flex, no cap! but when it came to where the tea on their hookup came from, elizabeth was straight-up lost, till she remembered that his squad up with bingley and her sis jane bein' tight was enough – in a time when one wedding hype got everyone cravin’ another – to spark the idea. she hadn’t even forgotten that her sister gettin’ hitched meant they’d be chillin’ together way more. and her neighbors over at lucas lodge – since through their group chat with the collinses the 411 hit lady catherine – had only tagged that as an almost certain, immediate move which she herself had been hypin’ up for some future day.

while sifting through lady catherine’s vibes, elizabeth couldn’t help but get a bit sus about what might blow up if she kept meddlin’. from how lady catherine laid out her plan to nuke the marriage, elizabeth figured she might need to slide a DM to her nephew; but how he'd take a savage roast of the potential L’s from linkin’ up with her, she was too shook to even spell out. she had zero clue how much he was vibin’ with his aunt or how much he leaned on her judgment – but it was obvious he had her on some next-level pedestal way above what she felt; and, for sure, when his aunt started droppin’ the lowdown on how mismatched a fam hookup would be compared to his own, she was totally hittin’ him where it hurt. with his high-key ideas of dignity, he’d probs think that the tea, which to elizabeth had sounded weak and kinda cringe, was actually packed with solid sense and fire logic.

if he’d been all on the fence before about what to do – which looked mad likely – then the savage advice and pleading from a close fam member might just clear up every doubt and have him feel as hyped as pure, unblemished dignity can get. in that scenario, he wouldn’t bounce at all. lady catherine could totally flex by spotting him while cruisin’ through town; and his plan with bingley to show up again at netherfield would have to yeet out immediately.

“if, therefore, a lame excuse for not keepin’ his word drops into his friend’s dms in a few days,” she added, “i’ll know how to peep it. i’ll then yeet every expectation and all the dreams i had of him bein’ ride-or-die. if he’s cool with just regretin’ me, when he coulda clutched my vibe and hand, i’ll stop regretin’ him, fr.”

the rest of the fam was hella shook on findin’ out who their visitor was, but they pretty much played it off with the same kinda assumption that had fed mrs. bennet’s endless curiosity; and elizabeth got a free pass from all that roast chatter.

the next morning, as she was slidin’ down the stairs, her dad popped outta his library clutchin’ a letter like it was the hottest tea in town.

“lizzy,” he said, “i was about to come find you: slide into my room.”

she trailed after him, her curiosity maxed out ‘cause she was already suspectin’ that the letter in his hand might be linked to some shady tea. it hit her outta nowhere that it might be from lady catherine, and she was bracing herself for a marathon of cringe explanations.

she followed her dad to the fireplace and they both sat down. then he went on:

“i got a letter this morning that had me shook af. since the tea is mostly about you, you def need to know the deets. i seriously didn’t know i had two daughters about to smash that wedding game. so, congrats on that epic conquest.”

in an instant, a mad flush hit elizabeth’s cheeks as she peeped that the letter was probably from the nephew instead of the aunt; and she wasn’t sure if she should be hyped that he actually explained himself or salty that the letter wasn’t addressed straight-up to her, while her dad continued:

“you look hella conscious. young ladies have next-level intuition about this sorta tea; but i bet even your savage mind can’t guess the name of your admirer. this letter is from mr. collins.”

“from mr. collins! and what tea does he even have to spill?”

“obviously, mr. collins is droppin’ some serious deets. he kicks it off by throwin’ mad congrats on the upcoming nuptials of my eldest daughter – which, word is, he got from some chill, gossipin’ lucases. i ain’t gonna test your impatience by readin’ all his 411 on that part. now, switchin’ the tea to you:—‘after sendin’ you the sincere congrats from mrs. collins and me on this super happy event, let me slide in a quick hint about another match, which we heard from the same crew. it’s presumed that your daughter elizabeth won’t be rockin’ the bennet name for long once her eldest sister bounces; and the chosen partner of her fate is, like, one of the most baller dudes in this land.’ can you even vibe out, lizzy, who this is hintin’ at? ‘this young gentleman is blessed, in a dope way, with everything a mortal heart could ever crave – flashy property, elite fam, and mad patronage. yet, despite all these temptations, let me warn my cousin elizabeth, and you too, about the major probs you could catch if you rushed into this dude’s offers, which, obvi, you’d be tempted to snatch right away.’ got any idea, lizzy, who this gentleman might be? but now it comes out. ‘my motive for droppin’ this caution is simple:—we got reason to believe that his aunt, lady catherine de bourgh, isn’t even remotely on board with the match.’ mr. darcy, y’see, is the man! now, lizzy, i think i’ve totally surprised you. could he, or the lucases, have thrown another name into the mix from our squad that would’ve more seriously clapped back against what they dished out? mr. darcy – the dude who only scopes out women to peep flaws, and who, lowkey, probably never even looked at you in his life! it’s legendary!”

elizabeth tried to vibe with her dad’s cheeky banter, but she could only force out a super reluctant smirk. his roast was, like, totally not the aesthetic for her.

“are you not vibin’?”

“oh, yeah, no cap. just keep readin’, bet.”

“‘after droppin’ the likelihood of this wedding tea to her ladyship last night, she promptly, with her classic condescension, spilled her feels on the sitch; and when it became clear that, due to some fam objections from my cousin, she would never give her seal of approval to what she called such a disgraceful match, i felt it was my duty to slide the freshest intel to my cousin so that she and her noble admirer would be in the loop, and not rush headlong into a marriage that wasn’t properly signed off.’ mr. collins, moreover, adds, ‘i’m seriously hyped that my cousin lydia’s sad drama got capped so well, and i’m only worried that the fact they were livin’ together before the wedding became public might be too extra. i can’t, however, neglect the duties of my position, or hide my amazement at hearin’ that you let the young couple crash at your place right after they tied the knot. it was like givin’ a free pass to vice; and if i’d been the rector of longbourn, i would have thrown down some major opposition. you should definitely forgive them as a christian, but never let ‘em flex in your presence or even whisper their names in your ear.’” 

that’s mr. collins’s whole take on christian forgiveness! the rest of his letter drips on his dear charlotte’s sitch and his hopes for a fresh olive branch. but, lizzy, you look like you ain’t feelin’ it. you’re not gonna get all missish, right? come on, we live just to roast our neighbors and laugh at them in return, yes?

“oh,” cried elizabeth, “i'm hella entertained. but damn, it's weird vibes!”

“yeah, that’s exactly what makes it so absurdly funny. if they’d been hyped on any other dude, it’d have been nothing; but his flawless indifference mixed with your extra pointed dislike makes it delightfully absurd! as much as i lowkey hate writin’, i wouldn’t trade mr. collins’s letter drip for anything. no cap, when i read one of his notes, i end up givin’ him props over even wickham – even though i do appreciate the cheek and fake sanctimony of my son-in-law. and seriously, lizzy, what did lady catherine even say about this tea? did she roll up to flat-out refuse her consent?”

to that, his daughter just laughed it off; and since the question came out so innocently, she wasn’t bothered by him rehashed it. elizabeth had never felt so forced to front a vibe that wasn’t her true feels. she had to laugh when all she really wanted was to cry, fr. her dad’s savage roast on mr. darcy’s indifference left her feeling massively bruised, and she couldn’t help but wonder if it was just a total fail in his meme-read—or if she lowkey overvalued him, too.

“the efforts of his aunt.”

chapter lviii.

instead of gettin’ some lame excuse letter from his friend – as elizabeth half-expected mr. bingley to drop – he managed to scoop up darcy and roll into longbourn just days after lady catherine’s cameo. the squad of gentlemen rolled up early; and before mrs. bennet could even spill that they’d bumped into his aunt (which had her daughter in a state of momentary dread), bingley, who was craving one-on-one time with jane, dropped the idea of everyone stickin’ together. everyone was like, “bet.” mrs. bennet wasn’t exactly about that walk life, and mary could never clock extra time for a stroll, so the remaining five bounced out as a crew. bingley and jane, playin’ it smooth, let the rest of the gang outpace them. they lagged behind, while elizabeth, kitty, and darcy were left to chill and vibe on their own. hardly any words got dropped; kitty was too shook to speak up around him, elizabeth was lowkey schemin’ a desperate move, and, who knows, maybe darcy was on some similar wavelength.

they cruised over to the lucases’ pad since kitty was dying to hit up maria; and since elizabeth saw no reason to make a whole drama out of it, when kitty dipped, she boldly rolled on with him one-on-one. now was the moment for her epic resolution to go off; and with her courage on max, she immediately said:

“mr. darcy, i’m hella selfish, so for the sake of keepin’ my own feels on fleek, i don’t give a tossed if i end up bruisin’ yours. i can’t stop thankin’ you for that one-of-a-kind kindness you dropped on my poor sis. ever since i caught wind of it, i’ve been burnin’ to let you know how mad grateful i am. if the tea ever spreads to the fam, i’d be droppin’ a whole barrage of thank-yous, not just my own.”

“i'm sorry, like, super sorry,” darcy shot back, his tone mixin’ shock and deep feels, “that you had to get hit with something that, in the wrong light, mighta made you uneasy. i honestly didn't think mrs. gardiner was so sus.”

“you must not drag my aunt into this. lydia’s reckless thoughtlessness was the first spit that let me know you were involved; and, of course, i couldn’t chill until i got all the deets. let me thank you again and again, on behalf of the whole fam, for that generous compassion that had you bustin’ your chops and takin’ all that heat just to get the full scoop.”

“if you’re gonna thank me,” he replied, “let it be for you alone. i won’t front that wantin’ to see you happy added extra juice to the reasons that had me rollin’, but your fam don’t owe me squat. as much as i respect them, honestly, i was only ever thinkin’ about you.”

elizabeth was way too embarrassed to even drop a word. after a beat, darcy added, “you’re too bomb-hearted to mess around with me. if your feels are still exactly what they were last april, just spit it out right now. my vibes and wishes haven’t changed one bit; but one word from you and i’ll ghost this topic for, like, ever.”

feelin’ a whole load of awkward cringe and anxiety about the sitch, elizabeth forced herself to speak; and almost instantly, though her words came out a bit clunky, she made it crystal that her feels had flipped so hard since that last april that she was totally down with his present vibe. the glow that her reply sparked in him was on a whole next level; and he poured out his feels as sensibly and warmly as any dude madly in love can. if elizabeth had met his eyes, she might have peeped just how genuinely his face lit up with happy vibes—but since she couldn’t lock eyes, she just soaked in every word; and he told her about deep feelings that, by proving how crucial she was to him, made his love for her level up every single moment.

they strolled on without even knowin’ which way they were headin’. there was just too much on their minds, hearts, and tongues to notice anything else. she soon figured out that their current good vibes were totally thanks to the hustle of his aunt, who did hit him up on her way back through london, and then spilled the deets about her journey to longbourn – the motive, the real tea, and every spicy bit of her chat with elizabeth; she went hard on every expression elizabeth dropped, which lady catherine reckoned showed her total defiance and assurance, belivin’ it’d help her boss move to snag that promise from her nephew that she had flat-out refused to give. but, spoiler alert, it backfired big time on her ladyship.

“it made me start hopin’,” he admitted, “like, i hardly ever caught those vibes before. i know you so well that if you were 100% done with me, you'd’ve straight-up told lady catherine, no cap, crystal clear.”

elizabeth flushed and burst out laughing as she responded, “yeah, you know my real talk is always on point – i could totally do that. after roastin’ you so savage right in your face, i’d have zero qualms dishin’ that out to all your peeps.”

“what did you even say about me that i didn’t earn? cuz even though your clapbacks were kinda off-base, built on some wild assumptions, my actions back then totally earned the harshest takedown. it was unforgivable. i can’t even think of it without feelin’ major disgust.”

“we’re not gonna flex a full-blown beef over who’s more at fault for that night,” elizabeth said. “if you break it down, neither of our moves were squeaky clean; but since then, i hope we both leveled up on our manners.”

“i can't just bounce back from that vibe so easily. the memory of everything i said and did that night – it’s been straight-up painful for months now. your roast, so on point, i’ll never forget: ‘had you acted more gentlemanly.’ those were your words. you have no idea how those words haunted me; it took me a minute to admit they were totally justified.”

“i honestly never expected them to hit so hard. i had zero clue that those words would ever be felt like that.”

“i can totally see that. i bet you thought i was completely empty of real feels, for sure. the look on your face when you said i couldn’t have come at you in any way that’d make you accept me – that image is something i’ll never unsee.”

“oh, please don’t bring up all that old crap again. those memories are straight-up not doin’ it for me. trust, i’ve been hella ashamed of it for ages.”

darcy then brought up his letter. “so, did it – like, did it make you see me in a better light? while readin’ it, did you actually vibe with its message?”

she broke it down, explainin’ how the letter totally shifted her feels and how, bit by bit, all her old biases got yeeted away.

“i knew my words would hit you hard, but it had to be done. i hope you went and burned that letter, cuz there’s one part – especially at the beginning – that i seriously dread you re-readin’. i can still recall some lines that would legit have you hatin’ me, no cap.”

“i promise the letter is gonna be burnt, if you think that’s the only way to keep my good vibes intact; but even though we both reckon my opinions aren’t set in stone, i hope they’re not as easy to flip as that suggests.”

“when i penned that letter,” darcy replied, “i thought i was all chill and composed; but now i’m trippin’ that it was actually written out of some seriously bitter feels.”

“sure, the letter might’ve kicked off all bitter, but it didn’t end that way. that goodbye was straight-up charity. so, don’t stress about the letter. the feels of the writer and the receiver are now worlds apart from back then, so every bit of bad juju should just be forgotten. you gotta pick up on my philosophy: only keep the past if it actually brings you joy.”

“i can’t really vibe with that kind of philosophy. your lookin’ back on stuff has to be so squeaky clean that the good vibes you get aren’t deep philosophy at all—but, what’s even better, pure bliss from cluelessness. but for me, nah. painful memories will crash in that i just can’t block out. i’ve been a selfish soul all my life in practice, even if i knew better in theory. as a kid, i was schooled on what was right, but they never taught me to fix my temper. i got loaded with dope principles, but was left to run with them in pure pride and conceit. unfortunately, as an only child for ages, i got spoiled by my folks – my dad especially, who was all about kindness and good vibes – and they kinda let me be super self-centered and overbearing, carin’ only about my own crew, thinkin’ lowkey that everyone else was beneath me, even hopin’ to look down on their worth compared to mine. that’s how i was from age eight to eight-and-twenty; and i’d probably still be that way if it weren’t for you, my dearest, loveliest elizabeth! what do i not owe you, fr! you schooled me hard at first, but it turned out to be the most clutch lesson. through you, i got properly humbled. i came to you without even a doubt about your reception – you showed me that all my fake pretensions were nowhere near enough to please a woman truly worthy of being pleased.”

“had you then been totally convinced that i should be all about it?”

“indeed, i was. what’s up with my vanity? i honestly figured you were lowkey wishin’ and expectin’ my smooth moves.”

“my manners were definitely off, but not on purpose, i swear. i never meant to deceive you – my feels just sometimes mess up my game. i bet you were super pissed after that night!”

“hate you! sure, i was mad as hell at first, but then my anger got its act together.”

“i’m almost scared to ask what you thought of me when we first met at pemberly. were you even mad that i showed up?”

“nah, not at all; i was just straight-up surprised.”

“yo, your shock was max—i was not expecting you to notice me at all. my gut was like, ‘nah, you don’t get any extra fancy politeness,’ and i was lowkey not hyped to get more than what’s due.”

“bet, so my whole vibe was to show you, with every bit of polite drip i could muster, that i ain’t that salty about the past; and i was tryna secure your forgiveness and ease that shade by proving i peeped your burns and fixed ‘em. i can’t even pinpoint exactly when other feels popped off, but fr, it was like, about half an hour after i saw you.”

then he spilled the tea about how georgiana was hella stoked to meet you, and how she got majorly salty when things got abruptly cut off; and obvi, as the deets flowed, you soon learned that his plan to yeet from derbyshire after you for your sister was already locked in before he dipped from the inn—and that his deep, thoughtful mood was solely because of that wild mission.

she threw out a massive thanks again, but ngl, the topic was too sus for either of them to keep vibing on it.

after cruising several miles at a chill pace, too busy to even clock the time, they finally peeped their watches and were like, “bruh, time to yeet home.”

“what about mr. bingley and jane?” was the first tea drop that kicked off the chat about their sitch. darcy was hella hyped over their hookup; his homie had slid him the 411 first.

“i gotta ask—were you shook?” said elizabeth.

“nah fam, not even one bit. when i dipped, i felt it was bound to drop any moment.”

“so like, you greenlit it. i was on that vibe.” and even though he lost it over that label, she knew he was pretty much on the money.

“so, on the night before my london drip,” he said, “i dropped a confession on him that i legit should’ve slid ages ago. i spilled all the tea on how my previous meddling in his biz was extra and totally off-base. he was mega shook—had zero clue about it. plus, i admitted i was lowkey wrong thinking your sis was indifferent; and seeing that his feels for her were still 100, i was deadass sure they’d vibe together.”

elizabeth couldn’t stop grinning at how chill he was while schooling his friend.

“did you drop your own receipts when you told him my sis was all about him, or was it just my spring gossip?” she asked.

“straight from my own peep—i closely scoped her during the two visits i just had here, and i was completely convinced she was feeling him.”

“and your solid witness basically sealed the deal for him, right?”

“fact, it did. bingley’s so naturally humble that he never trusted his own gut in a dicey sitch, but leaning on my 411 made it all smooth. i did have to confess one tea bomb that, for a hot minute, and not without reason, ruffled his feathers. i couldn’t ghost the fact that your sis was in town for three months last winter—a fact i knew but purposely held back. he got mad, no cap. but i’m convinced his rage fizzled out as soon as he was sure about your sis’s feels. he’s totally cool with it now.”

elizabeth almost wanted to drop that mr. bingley was the real mvp—a ride-or-die friend whose worth is priceless—but she held back, thinking he still wasn’t meme-ready for some playful roast. instead, she kept it chill. as they vibed on how bingley was gonna be the happiest dude ever (only outdone by darcy’s own epic vibe), they kept chatting till they hit the crib. in the hall, they yeeted off in opposite directions.

“unable to utter a syllable.”

chapter lix.

“yo dear lizzy, where you been traipsing off to?” came the question from jane as soon as elizabeth bounced into the room, and then everyone else was like the same when they sat down for dinner. all she had to say was that she’d been wandering on a total free-form flex until she was out of her own head. she even got a bit blushy while admitting it—but nothing in her vibe tipped anyone off to the real tea.

the evening slid by all lowkey, with nothing extra popping off. the official lovebirds were chatting and laughing, while the rest of the squad stayed in silent spectator mode. darcy wasn’t exactly the type to have happiness spilling out in constant LOLs; and elizabeth, feeling all kinds of agitated and confused, knew deep down she was happy even if she wasn’t screaming it out—since besides that immediate awkwardness, more L’s might be on deck. she braced herself for the fam drama when her sitch went public—she knew no one was really down with him except jane, and she worried that for the others, his vibe was a constant “nah” that all his bank and glow couldn’t fix.

that night, she went full confessional mode with jane. even though jane was usually not one to be all sus, tonight she was completely incredulous.

“yo, lizzy, fr fr—you gotta be jkin. engaged to mr. darcy?! nah, nah, don’t play me; i know that’s straight-up impossible.”

“this is such a sus start! i was riding or dying on you; and i know no one else will vibe with my story if you don’t back it up. but seriously, i’m deadass—i’m spitting nothing but the truth. he still holds mad luv for me, and we’re officially engaged.”

jane peeped her with major side-eye. “oh, lizzy! no cap, that can’t be—i know you’ve been lowkey hating on him.”

“fr, you got zero tea on this. all that past drama? just forget it. maybe i wasn’t all in on him back then, but having an extra clingy memory about it is a major no-go. trust, i’m locking that tea down forever.”

miss bennet was still sitting there, totally agape. elizabeth then doubled down, all serious, confirming the truth.

“omg, fr, can this actually be legit? but now i gotta put my trust in you,” cried jane. “my dearest, dearest lizzy, i totally congratulate you; but yo, are you, like, 100% sure—no cap—that you can actually be happy with him?”

“i mean, no doubt. it’s already on lock that we’re gonna be the dopest couple ever. but then, are you cool with it, jane? you down with having a bro like that?”

“hella much—I mean, nothing could make me or bingley any happier. but we did talk it over and thought it was kinda impossible. and do you actually feel him as deeply? oh, lizzy! do anything rather than settle for a loveless match. you 100% sure you’re in the right feels?”

“oh, def! you'll probably think i’m extra when i spill all the tea.”

“what’s the tea, then?”

“lowkey, i gotta confess—i love him way more than i do bingley. and, not gonna lie, i’m scared you'll get heated about it.”

“my dearest sis, get real now. i need to have a serious chat—drop ALL the deets without holding back. how long have you been crushing on him?”

“it’s been brewing so gradually that i can barely pinpoint when it kicked off; but i’m pretty sure it started when i first peeped his lit grounds at pemberley.”

another push for serious mode got the job done; and soon she stoked jane with her solemn word of devotion. once jane was down with that, miss bennet had no more tea to request.

“now, i’m totally happy,” she declared, “‘cause you’re gonna be as lit as me. i always had mad respect for him—even if it was just for loving you, i’d have been a fan. but now, as bingley’s buddy and your hubby-to-be, honestly, there’s only you and bingley who are extra dear to me. but, lizzy, yo, you’ve been mad lowkey and reserved. you barely dropped any tea about what went down at pemberley and lambton! i owe all that deets to someone else, not you.”

elizabeth then spilled the tea on why she had been keeping things on the DL. she didn’t wanna mention bingley; and her own messy feels made her ghost even his name—until now, when she couldn’t hide his role in lydia’s wedding any longer. every detail was out, and they spent half the night chatting it all up.

“omg!” cried mrs. bennet from a window the next morning, “if that extra mr. darcy ain’t rolling here again with our dear bingley, what’s his deal? how is he so extra, always showing up? i was lowkey expecting him to be out shootin’ some hoops or something instead of crashing our vibe. what are we gonna do with him? lizzy, you gotta bounce with him again so he doesn’t block bingley’s lane.”

elizabeth couldn’t help bustin’ a laugh at such a stupid proposal; but she was seriously vexed that her mom kept throwing that extra epithet at him.

as soon as they walked in, bingley shot her such an expressive glance and shook her hand with that warm, mega friendly vibe that left no doubt he was clued in; and then he blurted out, “mrs. bennet, got any more lanes around here where lizzy can lose her way today?”

“i’m tryna put mr. darcy, lizzy, and kitty on that oakham mount run this morning,” said mrs. bennet. “it’s a long, chill walk, and mr. darcy has never peeped the view.”

“that might vibe for the rest of y’all,” replied mr. bingley, “but i’m sure it’ll be too extra for kitty, right, kitty?”

kitty admitted straight up she’d rather chill at home. darcy was hella hyped to scope the view from the mount, and elizabeth silently threw down a “bet.” as she bounced upstairs to get ready, mrs. bennet followed her, saying—

“i’m super sorry, lizzy, that you gotta deal with that disagreeable dude all by yourself; but i hope you won’t mind it. it’s all for jane’s sake, ya know—there’s really no reason to chat him up except every now and then; so don’t stress it.”

during their stroll, it was decided that mr. bennet’s blessing should be secured later that evening—elizabeth was keeping her own request for her mom on the down-low. she couldn’t even tell how her mom would take it; sometimes doubting if mr. darcy’s wealth and charm would ever override her major hate for him; but whether her mom was extra against or extra hyped for the match, one thing was clear—her vibe wouldn’t be on point to add any credit, and she couldn’t bear the thought of mr. darcy catching the first epic high of her joy or the first savage drop of her dislike.

that evening, soon after mr. bennet yeeted off to the library, she peeped mr. darcy rising up to follow him—and her agitation hit peak levels. she wasn’t scared of her dad’s opposition, but the thought that he’d get mad because of her choice—as his fave child, her decisions causing him anxiety and regret over losing her—was a total mood, and she sat there in misery until mr. darcy popped back up, and his smile gave her a tiny chill pill. in a few minutes, he slid up to the table where she was with kitty; and while lowkey pretending to admire her work, he whispered, “bounce to your dad—he wants you in the library.” and she dipped immediately.

her dad was pacing in the room, looking all grave and anxious. “lizzy,” he said, “what are you even doing? are you tripping if you’re cool with this dude? haven’t you always been lowkey hating him?”

she was legit wishing her past tea had been more chill and her expressions more moderate—this would’ve saved her from dropping all these messy explanations and declarations that are super awkward to reveal; but now, they were necessary, and she, all mixed up, assured him of her true attachment to mr. darcy.

“or, like, you’re totally set on him. he’s money, no doubt, and you’ll get drippier clothes and rides than jane—but yo, will that actually make you happy?”

“do you have any other beef,” said elizabeth, “besides thinking i’m just indifferent?”

“none at all. we all know he’s a proud, extra jerk—but that don’t even matter if you’re straight up vibing with him.”

“i do, i seriously do like him,” she replied with teary eyes; “i love him. no cap, he ain’t got any improper pride—he’s mad amiable. you don’t really know his true vibe; so please, don’t roast him with that kind of talk.”

“lizzy,” her dad said, “i gave him my full thumbs up. he’s the kind of guy i’d never dare say no to when he asked for anything. now i pass that blessing to you, if you’re set on him. but listen—think this through. i know you well, lizzy. i know you won’t be happy or respected unless you truly admire your hubby, unless you see him as top tier. your lively talents might just get wrecked in a lame-ass match—you’d barely dodge the cringe and misery. kiddo, please don’t make me suffer by watching you not give mad respect to your partner for life. you seriously don’t know what you’re doing.”

elizabeth, clearly shook, got all real and solemn in her reply; and finally, after dropping constant affirmations that mr. darcy was truly her bae, by breaking down how her vibe for him slowly glowed up over time—and vowing that his love wasn’t just a one-day flex but had withstood many months of slow burn, while she listed all his dope qualities with full energy—she totally smashed her dad’s disbelief and got him to be cool with the match.

“alright, babe,” he said once she finished, “i got nothing more to add. if that’s the vibe, he totally deserves you. i wouldn’t have let you go to anyone less dope, my lizzy.”

to wrap up the hype, she then spilled the tea on what mr. darcy did for lydia on his own volition. he listened, totally shook.

“this evening’s lit with wonders, fr! so darcy did literally everything—sealed the deal, dropped the cash, cleared the dude’s debts, and even snagged him his commission! as if that wasn’t extra, it’s gonna save me a mad hassle and a ton of cash. if it were your uncle’s mess, i’d have been paying up; but these wild young lovebirds handle their own drama. i’ll offer to pay him tomorrow, and he’ll go off ranting about his love for you—then that’s that.”

he then recalled when she was super embarrassed a few days back while reading mr. collins’s letter; after chuckling at her for a minute, he finally let her bounce, saying as she dipped out, “if any young dudes roll in for mary or kitty, just slide ‘em in—I’m chill af.”

elizabeth’s brain felt hella lighter now; and after spending like half an hour in her own room to reflect, she rejoined the squad with a sorta chill vibe. everything was still fresh out of the oven for major party feels, but the night slid by peacefully; there wasn’t anything major to dread anymore, and the comforts of easy, familiar vibes would drop soon enough.

when her mom bounced up to her dressing room that night, she trailed her and dropped a major bomb of news. the reaction was straight-up wild: at first, mrs. bennet sat totally dead silent, unable to even spit a word. it took several minutes before she could even peep what she heard—though not enough to give full props for the benefit of the fam, or that came in the form of a new bae. eventually, she started to come around, fidgeted in her chair, got up, sat down again, and was lowkey amazed and blessed by it all.

“omg, lord bless me! like, think about it—dear me, mr. darcy! who would’ve ever guessed? and for real, is it legit? oh, my sweetest lizzy! you’re gonna be rich as heck and epic! extra pin money, bling jewels, dope rides—you know, jane’s got literally nothing on this. i’m so stoked, so happy. such an adorbs dude! so handsome! so tall! oh, my dear lizzy! please forgive my past hate—I hope he cools it off. dear, dear lizzy—a downtown crib! everything charming! three daughters married! ten grand a year! omg, lord, what’s gonna happen to me? i’m gonna lose it!”

that was more than enough proof that her approval was totally on point; and elizabeth, hyped that this gush of tea was for her ears only, bounced away. but barely three minutes after she got to her room, her mom trailed right behind.

“my dearest child,” she shrieked, “i can’t think of anything else—ten thousand a year, and prob even more! that’s basically lord level! and a special licence—you're gonna be married with that extra seal of approval. but, my dearest luv, tell me—which dish is mr. darcy hella into, so i can score it tomorrow?”

this was a sketchy sign of how her mom might act with mr. darcy himself; and elizabeth peeped that even with all his warm vibes and her fam’s blessing, there was still something off. but the next day turned out way better than expected—mrs. bennet was so shook in awe of her future son-in-law that she barely dared speak to him unless it was to flex any attention or mad respect for his opinions.

elizabeth got some major satisfaction seeing her dad hustling to get buddy-buddy with him; and mr. bennet soon confirmed that his respect for him was leveling up by the hour.

“i got mad respect for all my three sons-in-law,” he said. “wickham, maybe, is my fave; but honestly, i think i’m gonna dig your hubby just as much as jane’s.”

the obsequious civility.

chapter lx.

lizzy’s mood bounced back into playful mode, and she was all like, “mr. darcy, you gotta spill—how the heck did you ever fall for me?” 

“how did you even kickstart this?” she prodded. “i can vibe with you being all charming once you got started, but what triggered you to swipe right in the first place?”

“i can’t even lock down the exact hour, spot, look, or words that set it off—it’s literally ages ago. i was already deep in the feels before i even peeped that i’d begun.”

“you were lowkey immune to my glow early on, and as for my manners—my whole vibe towards you was always on the edge of being savage, and i never talked to you without lowkey wanting to diss you more than not. now, keep it 100; did you actually vibe with my impertinence?”

“for the sheer wildness of your mind, i totally did.”

“you could honestly call it impertinence straight up—it was pretty much that. the real tea is, you were so over all that fake civility, extra deference, and clout-chasing attention. you got super disgusted by the women who were always chatting, peeping, and scheming just to win your approval. i woke you up and kept you hooked ‘cause i was nothing like those basic peeps. if you weren’t actually cool, you’d have straight-up hated me for it—but even with all your lowkey efforts to disguise it, your feels were always pure and righteous; and deep down, you 100% dissed those who were so extra in their courting game. there—you’re free of that explanation; and honestly, on the real, i’m starting to think it makes total sense. sure, you might not see all the dope in me—but who cares once you fall in love?”

“but like, wasn’t there any good in how you acted all affectionate toward jane when she was down sick at netherfield?”

“dear jane! who could’ve been any less for her? but own it, girl—make it a vibe. my dope qualities are under your hood, and you gotta flex them as hard as you can; and in return, it’s on me to find all the chances to tease and roast you as much as possible. so tell me—what made you so extra shy about getting real at last? what had you lowkey avoiding me when you first popped by, and even when you dined here? like, especially when you called, why did you come off like you didn’t care about me?”

“‘cause you were mad serious and dead quiet, and didn’t hype me up at all.”

“but i was lowkey embarrassed.”

“and i was just as embarrassed, yo.”

“you could’ve totally clapped it out more when you came to dinner.”

“a dude who wasn’t feeling that deep might’ve.”



"yo, how unlucky is it that you actually have a legit answer ready to drop, and that i'm chill enough to admit it? but fr, i wonder how long you'd keep going off if you were left to your own wild vibes. like, when would you’ve even spoken if i hadn't slid you that question? my decision to hit you with thanks for being so kind to lydia was, no cap, a total game-changer. maybe even too extra, cuz what’s the point of any moral when our cozy feels come straight from breaking promises? i probably should've never even brought it up. this just ain't it, chief."

"chill, you really don't need to stress. the moral's gonna be all fair and square. lady catherine’s wild, extra moves to split us up actually cleared all my sus doubts. i ain't riding on your extra need to flex your gratitude for my current happiness. i was just not in that mood to wait for your mic drop moment. my auntie's bomb intel sparked major hope, and i was determined to get all the deets, straight away."

"lady catherine's been mad clutch – seriously, infinite help – which should make her hella happy, cuz she lives for being useful. but spill the tea: why'd you even cruise down to netherfield? was it just to ride over to longbourn and catch some major cringe, or were you planning some next-level drama? {469}"

"real talk? my main move was to see you up close, and scope out if there’s any chance i could make you catch feels. what i promised myself – my whole vibe – was to peep if your sister was still lowkey into bingley, and if that was the case, to drop the confession bomb on him that i ended up totally delivering."

"so, you ever gonna have the guts to announce to lady catherine what epic tea is about to go down?"

"yo, elizabeth, i’d say i'm more about needing time than straight-up courage right now. but honestly, it still has to be done; and if you slide me a sheet of paper, it’s gonna be penned out on the spot."

"and if i didn’t already have a letter to write, i’d totally chill next to you and vibe over how smooth your writing game is – just like some other young lady did back in the day. but, gotta keep in mind, i’ve also got an aunt who seriously can’t be left hanging any longer."

from being too shook to admit how overhyped her vibe with mr. darcy really was, elizabeth hadn't yet hit reply on mrs. gardiner’s mega-long letter; but now, with some wicked tea to spill that she knew would be fire, she was almost cringing to see that her uncle and aunt had already wasted three whole days of pure happiness. so, without delay, she dropped the following text:—

"i woulda hit you with major thanks sooner, my dear aunt, just as i was totally supposed to for your long, sweet, and super on-point deets; but, to keep it 100, i was too heated to write. you hyped things up way more than they even were. now, go wild—let your imagination run all the crazy flights this topic could inspire, and unless you really think i'm actually hitched, you're pretty much spot on. you must hit me back super soon, and hype him up way more than last time. i thank you over and over again for not bouncing to the lakes. how could i be so dumb as to want that? your whole pony dream is just too adorable. we'll cruise around the park every day. i am, hands down, the happiest creature on the planet. sure, others might've said it before, but no one did it with this level of justice. i'm even more stoked than jane; she just smiles, but i straight up laugh out loud. mr. darcy is sending you all the love in the world he can spare from me. you're all invited to roll through pemberley at christmas. yours," etc.

mr. darcy's letter to lady catherine had its own vibe, totally different – and still not matching what mr. bennet hit back at mr. collins for his last note.

"dear sir,

i gotta bug you once more for some major congrats. elizabeth is basically about to become mr. darcy's wifey. help lady catherine chill as best as you can. but, lowkey, if i were in your kicks, i'd stick with the nephew. he's got way more to serve.

yours sincerely," etc.

miss bingley's congrats to her bro on his upcoming marriage were dripping with affection that was, like, all surface-level and insincere. she even slid a note to jane on the sitch to drop her delight and rehash all her old claims of regard. jane wasn’t born yesterday, but she totally felt the vibes; and even though she wasn’t counting on it, she couldn’t help but write back way nicer than she felt was technically deserved.

the pure joy that miss darcy spilled upon catching the same lit news was as 100 as her brother’s vibe in sending it. four sides of paper were straight-up not enough to hold all her hype and her fervent wish to be loved by her sister.

before any clap-back could come from mr. collins, or any shoutout to elizabeth from his missus, the longbourn crew caught wind that the collinses had themselves rolled up to lucas lodge. the tea on this sudden move soon went off: lady catherine got so unbelievably triggered by the contents of her nephew’s letter that charlotte, lowkey vibing hard over the match, was like, "i need to dip until this storm blows over." right then, her friend’s arrival was a legit mood boost for elizabeth, even though during their hangs she sometimes had to reckon that the perk was pricey—especially when she saw mr. darcy getting roasted by all the extra, obsequious politeness of her husband. still, he handled it with epic chill. he even sat through sir william lucas's corny compliments on carrying away the dopest jewel of the country, and maintained that he’s hoping they’ll all get to vibe at st. james's on the reg. any shoulder shrugs he threw were strictly off after sir william was outta sight.

mrs. philips's straight-up vulgar drip was another level, and maybe an even bigger test of his patience; and while mrs. philips, along with her sis, were way too starstruck around him to drop the casual chat that bingley's easygoing vibe usually sparked, whenever she did speak, it was mad lowbrow. plus, her respect for him—though it calmed her down—did absolutely nothing for her street cred. elizabeth did everything to shield him from their constant glare, always making sure he was only around the fam who could chat without killing his vibe; and even though the awkward feels from all this took a toll on the fun of courting, it amped up her hope for the future. she was totally hyped thinking about the days when they'd bounce out of this lame society and dip into the full-on comfort and elegance of the pemberley fam bash.

chapter lxi.

appy af for all her mom vibes was the day mrs. bennet finally yeeted her two most deserving daughters. with that extra swag and pride, she later popped over to mrs. bingley's and dished on all things mrs. darcy, which, trust, you could totally guess. i wish i could say, for the sake of her fam, that crushing her major dream by setting up so many of her kids turned her into a sensible, chill, and brainy woman for life; though maybe, it was just his luck that her hubby, who might not have vibed with domestic bliss served in such a bizarre form, got to see that she was still occasionally nervous and forever extra.

mr. bennet legit missed his second daughter like crazy; his love for her had him peeping out of the house way more than anything else could. he was always hyped to roll through pemberley, especially when he popped up totally unannounced.

mr. bingley and jane crashed netherfield for only a twelvemonth. being so close to her mom and the meryton fam just wasn’t cutting it for his chill personality or her warm heart. his sisters’ fave dream was finally coming true: he copped an estate in a county right next to derbyshire; and jane and elizabeth, along with every other happiness source, were now just a 30-mile ride apart.

kitty, scoring major material gains, spent most of her time vibing with her two elder sisters. in a squad far superior to anything she’d known before, her glow-up was huge. she wasn’t as wild or unfiltered as lydia; and being out of lydia’s chaotic shadow, she got proper attention and management, becoming way less irritable, less clueless, and less bland. since she was carefully kept away from lydia’s negative influence, and even though mrs. wickham was always sliding invites for her to crash with promises of balls and hotties, her dad was always like, "nah, not today."

mary was the only daughter stuck at home; and she got dragged out of her own pursuits because mrs. bennet could never sit alone. mary had no choice but to mingle more with the world, though she still kept up her daily moral rants; and now, without the sting of comparing her own looks to her sisters’, her dad kinda figured she was rolling with the changes pretty willingly.

as for wickham and lydia, their whole drip didn’t level up at all from their sisters’ weddings. wickham, ever the philosophical one, figured elizabeth would soon get the full lowdown on all his past ingratitude and shady moves; and, despite everything, he wasn’t totally out of hope that darcy might still be nudged into stacking his chips. the congrats letter that elizabeth received from lydia on her marriage spilled the tea that, if not directly from him, at least from his wife, that hope was very much alive. the letter went down like this:—

"my dear lizzy,

i’m wishing you mega joy. if you’re down for mr. darcy even half as hard as i vibe with my dear wickham, then you gotta be super happy. having you rolling in cash is a major comfort; and when you're not busy, i hope you’ll remember us. i’m pretty sure wickham would be all over snagging a spot at court; and honestly, i don’t think we’ll ever have enough coin to live on without some backup. any spot bringing in like three or four hundred a year will do; but, yo, please don’t drop this with mr. darcy if you’re not about it.

yours," etc.

and since elizabeth was honestly way more into "nah, i’d rather not" mode, she made sure her reply cut off every single one of those extra pleas and expectations. still, she managed to send them some relief, all thanks to being hella economical with her own private spending—something she did on the reg. it was obvious that with an income managed by two super extra people who were oblivious to the future, there just wasn’t enough cheddar to go around; and whenever they switched up their crib, either jane or elizabeth were always getting hit up for a little cash boost to cover the bills. their whole lifestyle, even when peace forced them back into a home base, was mad unstable. they were always on the move, chasing that cheap pad, and always blowing way more cash than they should.

his affection for her soon dipped into full-on indifference; hers stuck around a bit longer; and even with her being forever young and all kinds of extra, she held onto every bit of rep that her marriage scored her. even though darcy could never properly welcome him into pemberley, for elizabeth’s sake he still helped him level up his hustle. lydia would sometimes drop by when her hubby bounced to get lit in london or bath; and with the bingleys, they both would stick around so long that even bingley’s usually dope vibe got totally drained, and he ended up casually hinting that maybe they should bounce.

miss bingley got super shook over darcy’s wedding; but thinking it best to keep her right to roll through pemberley, she dropped all that drama, got even mad lovey with georgiana – almost as extra as before – and cleared off every bit of past civility debt owed to elizabeth.

pemberley was now straight-up georgiana’s crib; and the squad goals between the sisters were exactly what darcy had been hyped to witness. they could vibe with each other just as hard as they dreamed. georgiana held elizabeth in the highest regard; though in the beginning she’d sometimes sit there, almost shook to her core at elizabeth’s lively, playful chatter with her bro. he, who used to command a respect in her that nearly overpowered her feels, was now just an excuse for pure, unfiltered fun. her mind was absorbing knowledge that had never even crossed her feed before. following elizabeth’s totally fire instructions, she began to see that a woman can be extra with her hubby—something her bro wouldn’t always vibe with when his little sis is more than ten years younger than him.

lady catherine got mad triggered over her nephew's wedding; and in true, unfiltered fashion, in her reply to the announcement letter she dropped some language so savage—especially hitting elizabeth—that for a hot minute all communication was totally iced out. but eventually, after elizabeth’s smooth persuasion, her nephew managed to score a reconciliation; and after a bit more resistance from his aunt, her rage flipped into either pure affection for him or mad curiosity about how his missus would handle it; and she even lowkey rolled up to pemberley, despite the major clout the woods had taken from not just having such an extra mistress, but also from her city uncle and aunt’s frequent drop-bys.

with the gardiners, they were always on the tightest, most intimate level. darcy and elizabeth both straight-up loved them; and they always kept it 100 with the warmest gratitude for those peeps who, by bringing her into derbyshire, made their epic union possible.

chiswick press:—charles whittingham and co. tooks court, chancery lane, london.

the full project gutenberg license