chapter xxviii.

before long, it was wake-up time. i slid down the ladder and started cruisin’ downstairs; but as i hit the girls’ room, the door was wide open, and i peeped mary jane chillin’ by her old hair trunk – which was left open with her packin’ up her stuff, gettin’ ready to jet off to england. but then she stopped, a folded gown in her lap, with her face buried in her hands, cryin’ like she’d just been canceled hard.

i felt hella bad seein’ that – i mean, who wouldn’t? i stepped in and was like, “miss mary jane, u straight up can’t handle seein’ people in deep trouble, and neither can i – spill the tea.”

so she went off, and of course, it was all ‘bout the nay nays – i wasn’t surprised one bit. she said the dope trip to england was completely ruined for her; she had no clue how she’d ever vibe out there, knowin’ that her mama and the kiddos would never get to link up again – then she exploded with bitterness, throwin’ her hands up and cryin’, “oh, dear, dear, to think they ain’t ever gonna see each other again!”

“but they will – for real, within two weeks – i know it!” i shot back.

damn, it all spilled out before i could even process! and before i could move, she wrapped her arms around my neck and practically demanded, “say it again, say it again, say it again!”

i realized i’d gone off too quick and dropped too much tea, and now i was in a tight spot. i asked her, “give me a sec to think,” and she sat there all hyped up and impatient, kinda cute yet oddly chill, like someone who just had a tooth yanked.

so i sat there deep in thought, thinkin’ to myself, “yo, someone who drops the truth when the heat’s on is takin’ a huge risk – even though i ain’t exactly experienced that, it looks like truth might actually be safer than a lie.” i knew i had to mull it over, ‘cause it was mad weird and off the regular grid. i’d never seen anything like it before, but then i was like, “imma just chance it; i’ll go ahead and tell the truth this time, even though it feels like sittin’ on a keg of powder and lightin’ it just to see where it blows.”

so i goes, “miss mary jane, is there any spot outta town where u could crash for like three or four days?”

“yes; mr. lothrop’s,” she replied, “why?”

“never mind the why for now. if i drop the full deets on how i know the nay nays will for real reconnect in under two weeks – right here in this house – and show you the receipts, will u hit up mr. lothrop’s and crash there for four days?”

“four days?!” she goes, “i’d be down to stay a year!”

“alright, i just need your word – nothing extra. i’d rather have that than snag another dude’s kiss-the-bible routine.” she smiled and blushed all sweet, and i added, “if u don’t mind, imma shut that door and bolt it.”

i then headed back and sat down again, continuing, “don’t freak out. just chill and toughen up, miss mary – i gotta drop some hard truths on u, and it’s gonna hit mad rough, but there’s no other way. your uncles aren’t really your uncles; they’re just a couple of lame frauds – straight-up deadbeats. okay, that’s the worst of it outta the way; u can handle the rest, mid-level style.”

of course, that hit her hard; but i was past the shallow end, so i kept on droppin’ every scoop – from when we first clapped that young fool head over heels at the steamboat, all the way to when she literally dove onto the king’s chest at the front door and got like sixteen or seventeen smooches – then she bounced up, her face all lit like a sunset, and declared:

“that brute! yo, don’t waste a minute – not even a second – we’re gonna get them tarred and feathered, then chucked in the river!”

i replied, “for sure. but do you mean before you head to mr. lothrop’s, or—?”

“oh, what was i even thinking?!” she quickly retracted, sittin’ back down. “please, don’t hold it against me – u won’t, right?” she laid her silky hand on mine in that way that i’d die for. “i was so triggered, i never imagined,” she admitted, “now go on, and i won’t get so wound up again. just tell me what u want done, and i’m all in.”

“yo,” i said, “these two lame frauds are a rough crew, and i’m stuck ridin’ with them a bit longer, whether i like it or not – i ain’t droppin’ the deets on why; and if u were to snitch on them, this town would totally get me out of their clutches, but then some other dude, who u don’t even know, would be in deep trouble. we gotta save him, right? of course. so, we’re not gonna rat on them.”

droppin’ that talk sparked a major idea in my brain. i figured maybe i could sneak a move to get me and jim off the hook with these frauds – lock ‘em up and dip out. but i wasn’t about to ride the raft in broad daylight with just me answerin’ questions, so i held off the plan until late tonight. then i goes, “miss mary jane, here’s the play: u won’t have to crash at mr. lothrop’s for long. how far out is it?”

“it’s a little short of four miles—straight out in the boonies.”

“cool, that works. now, bounce over there and hunker down till like nine or half past tonight, then get someone to scoop you up and bring you back – just say u cooked up a genius idea. if u get here before eleven, toss a candle in the window; and if i don’t show up by eleven, it means i’m ghost – out of sight and safe. then u roll out, spread the word, and get these deadbeats locked up.”

“bet, i’ll do it,” she agreed.

“and if it so happens that i don’t manage to dip and end up gettin’ hauled in with them, u gotta have my back and say i dropped the full deets beforehand – and stick by me with everything u got.”

“stand by you? hell yeah i will. they ain’t even allowed to mess with a strand of your hair!” she declared, her nostrils flaring and her eyes snapping with conviction.

“if i get away, i won’t be here to prove that these clowns aren’t really your uncles – i couldn’t pull it off if i stuck around. i swear they’re just a bunch of deadbeats, but that still means somethin’. there are others who can handle this better than me, and they won’t get doubted as quick as i would. i’ll hook you up with their deets. gimme a pencil and a piece of paper. write this down: ‘royal nonesuch, bricksville.’ stash it safe and don’t lose it. when the court wants dirt on these two, tell ‘em to roll up to bricksville and say they got the squad that rocked the royal nonesuch, and ask for witnesses – u’ll have the whole town down here faster than u can blink, miss mary. and they’ll be comin’ in droves too.”

i figured we had our plan locked in. so i continued, “just let the auction roll on, and don’t sweat it. nobody’s gotta pay for what they snag until a full day after the auction – that short notice means they gotta stick around until they get their cash; and as we’ve set it up, the sale don’t even count, and they ain’t pocketin’ any money. it’s just like with the nay nays – it was never a real sale, and the nay nays will be slidin’ back before long. they can’t even cash in on that money yet – they’re stuck in the worst kind of fix, miss mary.”

“well,” she said, “i’ll bounce down to breakfast now, and then i’m headin’ straight for mr. lothrop’s.”

“nah, that ain’t the move, miss mary jane,” i snapped, “no way – u gotta dip before breakfast.”

“why?”

“what did u even think i wanted you to roll for, miss mary?”

“i never really knew – come to think of it, i got no clue. what was it?”

“yo, it’s ‘cause u ain’t one of these tough leather-face types. i don’t need a fancy script when your face already drops all the tea. can u really face your uncles when they roll up to give u their morning smooches, and never—”

“stop, stop! yes, i’ll bounce before breakfast – i’m down for that. but what about leavin’ my sisters with them?”

“yeah; never mind ‘em. they gotta tough it out a bit longer. if all of y’all left together, folks might start sniffin’ something off. i don’t want u seein’ your sisters or anyone else in this town; if a neighbor asks how your uncles are doin’ this morning, your face will spill the tea. no, just bounce on out, miss mary jane, and i’ll handle it all. i’ll tell miss susan to give your uncles your lovin’ and say you dipped for a few hours to chill, get a fresh look, or catch a friend – and you’ll be back tonight or early tomorrow.”

“bouncin’ to see a friend is cool, but i’m not down with my love goin’ to them.”

“alright then, it won’t happen.” it was cool lettin’ her know – no harm, no foul. it’s just a little move, no big drama; sometimes the little moves smooth out the ride the best down here. it’d help mary jane chill, and it wouldn’t cost a dime.

then i goes, “there’s one more thing – that bag of cash.”

“well, they got that; and it makes me feel kinda goofy thinkin’ ‘bout how they scored it,” she replied.

“nah, you’re off – they don’t got it.”

“so who’s holdin’ it then?”

“i wish i knew, but i don’t. i had it ‘cause i jacked it from them – and i jacked it to hook you up; i know exactly where i stashed it, but i’m afraid it ain’t there no more. i’m mad sorry, miss mary jane, i’m as sorry as i can be; but i did the best i could – i kept it 100. i nearly got caught, so i had to dump it in the first spot i hit and then jet – and that spot was def not chill.”

“oh, stop blaming yourself – it’s rough but you couldn’t help it; it ain’t your fault. so, where’d you hide it?”

i didn’t wanna drag her back into all that mess, and i just couldn’t drop the deets about that deadbeat corpse lyin’ in the coffin with that bag of cash chillin’ on his stomach. so i stayed quiet for a minute; then i goes,

“i’d rather not spill where i dropped it, miss mary jane, if u can cut me some slack; but imma write it down for u on a piece of paper, and u can peep it along the road to mr. lothrop’s, cool?”

“oh, yes,” she replied.

so i scribbled, “i put it in the coffin. it was in there when you were bawlin’ in the night. i was chillin’ behind the door, and i was hella sorry for you, miss mary jane.”

it made my eyes water a bit thinkin’ ‘bout her cryin’ all alone that night, with those skeezy devils lurkin’ under her roof, shamin’ and jacking her; and when i folded that note up and handed it to her, i saw tears wellin’ in her eyes too; then she grabbed my hand hard and said,

“good-bye. i’m gonna do everythin’ exactly as you said; and if i never see you again, i won’t ever forget you – i’ll think of you a million times and pray for you, fr!”

and just like that, she bounced.

pray for me! i figured if she really knew me, she'd land a gig way more her vibe. but i bet she did it anyway—she was just that kind. she had the guts to pray for judus if the mood hit her – there’s no backin’ down with her, i swear. you can call it flattery, but honestly, she had more grit than any girl i’ve ever seen; she was just packed with strength. and when it comes to beauty – and pure goodness too – she outshines ‘em all. i haven’t seen her since she dipped out that door; like, i haven’t peeped her again, but i swear i’ve thought about her a million times and remembered her promise to pray for me; and if i ever thought prayin’ for her would boost me, damn, i’d have done it or busted tryin’.

so mary jane dipped out the back way, i reckon, ‘cause nobody even clocked her leavin’. when i ran into susan and the hare-lip, i goes,

“what’s the name of that crew on the other side of the river that y’all sometimes go see?”

they replied, “there’s a few, but mainly it’s the proctors.”

“ah, that’s it – i almost forgot. well, miss mary jane told me to let y’all know she bounced over there in a mad hurry – one of them’s hella sick.”

“which one?”

“i don’t know; i kinda blanked, but i think it’s—”

“sakes alive, i hope it ain’t hanner?”

“i’m sorry to say it,” i go, “but hanner’s the very one.”

“my goodness, and she was all lit just last week! is she super wrecked?”

“ain’t no fancy term for it. they hung with her all night, miss mary jane said, and they don’t think she’ll last many hours.”

“damn, think about that now! what’s the sitch with her?”

i couldn’t come up with a solid reason off the bat, so i goes, “mumps.”

“mumps your granny! they don’t mess with peeps havin’ the mumps.”

“they don’t, right? but bet your boots, they do with these mumps. these mumps are on another level – a whole new flex, miss mary jane said.”

“how is it even a new kind?”

“‘cause it’s all mixed up with other stuff.”

“like what other stuff?”

“well, measles, whooping-cough, erysiplas, consumption, yellow janders, brain fever, and whoever knows what else, all tossed in the mix.”

“my land! and they still call it mumps?”

“that’s what miss mary jane said.”

“so like, why the heck do they even call it mumps?”

“yo, ‘cause it is mumps. that’s just how it starts.”

“man, that makes zero sense. someone could stub his toe, slip on some random shit, fall down a well, break his neck, bust his brains out, and some idiot comes along and goes, ‘oh, he stubbed his toe’ – would that even be logical? nope. and likewise, this whole mumps biz don’t add up. you feel me?”

“is it catching on? like, what are you even sayin’? it’s like tryin’ to catch a harrow in the dark. if u ain’t lockin’ onto one tooth, u’re bound to snag another, right? and u can’t just dip one tooth without hauling the whole harrow along, can u? basically, this kind of mumps is like one big harrow – and it ain’t no weak sauce when it’s hitched on proper.”

“man, this is awful, i think,” the hare-lip mumbled. “i’ll bounce to uncle harvey and—”

“oh, heck yes,” i replied, “i definitely would. i wouldn’t waste no time.”

“but why wouldn’t u?”



yo, peep this for a sec, and maybe it'll hit ya. ain't your uncles on a turbo ride back to england, like, asap? and fr, do you seriously think they'd dip out and leave you to ghost on that crazy road trip alone? obvi they got you on lock, no cap. they got mad chill vibes, so it's all gucci. your uncle harvey's a preacher, right? facts. aight, so here's the tea: is a preacher gonna scam a steamboat clerk? or hustle a ship clerk? all for the sake of letting miss mary jane hop on board? obviously he ain't about that scam life. so what's his move? he'll be like, "big oof, it's super tragic, but my church biz has gotta roll out extra fast; cuz my niece just caught that nasty pluribus-unum mumps vibe, and i gotta chill here for three whole months to peep if she caught it." but yo, if you think spilling the tea to uncle harvey is the move—

bruh, why we still clownin' around here when we could be living it up in england, chillin' while waiting to peep if mary jane got that nastiness or nah? lowkey, you sound like such a dweeb.

anyways, maybe spill the tea to some of the squad next door, ya feel?

yo, listen up. you legit win the crown for straight-up raw dumb. can't you peep that they'd totally snitch? the only smart move is to keep it 100 and not tell a single soul.

ok, maybe you're on point—facts, i vibe that you're right.

but i figure we gotta slide that info to uncle harvey, like, she dipped for a bit so he ain't gonna be all sus about her?

yeah, mary jane was down with that. she dropped a line: "tell 'em to send uncle harvey and william my vibes and a smooch, and mention that i bounced over the river to peep mr.—mr. who? what was the name of that bougie fam your uncle peter was always hyped about? like, the one that—"

dude, you probs mean the apthorps, right?

yeppers; those fancy names always mess with your brain, like you can barely recall 'em half the time. she lowkey said she bounced over to bug the apthorps into coming through at the auction to cop the crib, cuz she was dead sure uncle peter would rather have 'em bag it than anyone else; and she's gonna stick on 'em till they finally agree, and then, if she's not too beat, she'll bounce home, and if she is, she'll slide in the morning anyway. she said, "keep it on the down-low about the proctors, only mention the apthorps"—which is totes legit, cuz she's going there to drop the deets about them copping the house; i got the memo straight from her.

aight, they peaced out to crash with their uncles, send major love and smooches, and spill the deets.

everything was chill now. the girls stayed mad quiet since they were hyped on england vibes; plus the king and the duke were lowkey preferring mary jane to be on that auction grind instead of hanging with doctor robinson. i was vibing majorly; felt like i had flexed pretty neat—no cap, even tom sawyer probably couldn't've mic'd it up any cleaner. sure, he might've dropped extra sauce, but i ain't wired for that drip.

so they threw down the auction in the public square, like, late in the arvo, and it just dragged on and on, while the old dude was chillin' up next to the auctioneer, looking all zen and proper, dropping some scripture vibes or preppy inspo quotes every now and then, and the duke was out there fishing for clout like he had zero chill, always flexin' his goo-goo vibes.

but eventually the saga dragged on, and everything got snapped up—except a tiny lil’ lot in the graveyard. so they had to hustle that off, and i never peeped a more extra flex from the king, mad hungry to gobble up all the cash. meanwhile, as they were vibing, a steamboat landed, and within a hot two minutes a wild mob crashed in, yelling, laughing, making mad noise, and straight-up singing:

"here’s your opposition line! here’s your two sets o’ heirs to old peter wilks—and you pays your money and you takes your choice!"