chapter xxiv.

next day, near night, our crew parked under a little willow hangout smack in the middle, with a village on each side of the river, and the duke and the king started schemin’ on how to work those towns. jim rolled up to the duke and was like, "i hope this only takes a few hours, cuz bein’ cooped up in that wigwam all day, all tied up like a noob, is mad exhausting." you see, when we left him solo, we had to rope him up—’cause if anyone caught him on his own without the ties, it wouldn’t exactly scream runaway nay nay, ya know? so the duke was like, "yo, it’s rough bein’ tied all day; i gotta hack out a fix."

the duke was mad smart and he quickly cooked up a plan. he rigged jim out in full-on king lear cosplay—a long, curtain-calico gown, a white horse-hair wig with whiskers—and then grabbed his theater makeup to slap jim’s face, hands, ears, and neck with this dead, dull, solid blue look, like a dude who’s been drowned for nine days straight. i swear, never did i see a more straight-up horrific look. then duke scribbled on a plank a sign that read:

sick arab—but harmless when not out of his head.

he nailed that bad boy to a board and propped it up four or five feet right in front of the wigwam. jim was totally vibin’ with that; he said it was way cooler than bein’ tied up every day, shakin’ at every sound. the duke told him to chill, make himself comfy, and if anyone came snoopin’, he should bounce out of the wigwam, strut some, and let out a wild howl like a beast—figurin’ that’d scare off the haters. solid plan, though most regulars wouldn’t wait for his howl; dude didn’t just look dead, he looked like next-level dead.

these rapscallions were hyped to try the nonesuch act again, ’cause the cash was mad sticky, but they figured it wouldn’t be safe now ’cause the word might’ve already dropped. they couldn’t nail a project that hit just right; so eventually the duke was like, "aight, imma take a breather, flex my brain for an hour or two, and see if i can whip up something for the arkansaw village," while the king was like, "i’ll slide over to the other village with zero plan—just lettin’ providence (or the devil, no cap) lead me to that bag." we all copped some fresh threads from our last stop; then the king geared up and told me, "yo, get your fit on, huckleberry." obviously, i did. the king’s new duds were all black and drippin’ with that sleek, stiff swag. i never knew clothes could flip a dude’s vibe so hard—before, he looked like the ornery old rip that ever existed; but now, when he’d ditch his new white beaver cap, throw in a bow, and flash a smile, he looked so on point and righteous you’d swear he just stepped out of the ark—maybe even old leviticus himself. jim tidied up the canoe, and i grabbed my paddle. there was a big steamboat chillin’ by the shore under the point, about three miles up from the town—been parked there for a couple hours loadin’ freight. then the king drops:

"yo, seein’ how i’m draped, i suppose i should be rollin’ in from st. louis or cincinnati, or some massive city. go snag the steamboat, huckleberry; we’re headin’ to that village on her."

i didn’t need no extra hype to catch a steamboat ride. i hit up the shore about half a mile past the village, then skated along the bluff bank in the chill water. before long, we bumped into this sweet, unsuspecting young country kid posted on a log, swipin’ the sweat off his face ‘cause the heat was mad intense, and he had a couple of oversized carpet bags with him.

the king was like, "yo, bring his nose inshore," and i did just that. then he asked, "where you headin', young blood?"

the kid goes, "to the steamboat; i’m bound for orleans."

the king then goes, "hop aboard. hold up a sec, my boy’s gonna help you with those bags. jump out and help the gentleman, adolphus"—which, lowkey, meant me.

i did that, and the three of us bounced off. the young guy was super thankful; said it was rough hauling his bags in this blazing heat. he then asked the king where he was headin’, and the king explained he’d cruised down the river, landed at the other village this morning, and now was paddlin’ up a few miles to link up with an old homie on a farm up there. the kid then goes:

"when i first saw you, i was like, 'yo, it's mr. wilks, and he almost made it here in time.' but then i was like, 'nah, you ain’t him, or else you wouldn’t be paddlin’ up the river.' you ain’t mr. wilks, are you?"

"nah, my name’s blodgett—elexander blodgett—reverend elexander blodgett, i guess, since i’m one of the lord’s humble servants. but still, i feel bad for mr. wilks for missin’ his cue, if he actually missed somethin’—and i hope he didn’t."

"well, he won’t miss any cash, ’cause he’ll catch that; but he did miss seein’ his bro peter kick the bucket—which he might not even care about, no cap—but his bro would've given anything to see him one last time; they hadn’t swapped stories in like three weeks, not seen each other since they were youngins—and he never even peeped his bro william, the clueless one—william’s barely thirty or thirty-five. peter and george were the only ones droppin’ by; george was the married bro—both he and his wife dipped last year. harvey and william are the only ones still in the game—and like i said, they didn’t roll in on time."

"did anyone hit ’em up with word?"

"oh, for sure; like a month or two back when peter first got snatched, ’cause peter was all, 'i don’t feel like bounce back this time.' you know, he was hella old, and george’s girls were too young to vibe as company for him—aside from mary jane, the redhead—so he was mad lonely after george and his wife dipped, and didn’t really wanna live. he was desperate to see harvey—and william too—’cause he was the type who just couldn’t cope with makin’ a will. he left a letter for harvey, spillin’ where he stashed his cash and how he wanted the rest split so george’s girls would be straight, ’cause george left nothin’. that letter was all they got from him."

"so, you reckon harvey ain’t comin’? where’s he at?"

"oh, he’s chillin’ in england—in sheffield—preaches there—and never even hit up this country. he hasn’t been around long, plus he might not even have gotten that letter, ya know."

"that’s rough, bro, too bad he won’t live to see his bros, poor dude. so you headin’ to orleans, right?"

"yeah, but that’s just part of it. i’m catchin’ a ship next wednesday for ryo janeero, where my uncle’s posted up."

"that’s a long haul. but bet it’s gonna be dope; man, i wish i was headin’ that way. is mary jane the oldest? how old are the rest?"

"mary jane’s nineteen, susan’s fifteen, and joanna’s about fourteen—that’s the one always doin’ good deeds, even with a hare-lip."

"poor kids! left to fend for themselves in this cold, harsh world, huh."

but yo, it could be worse. old peter had a whole squad, and none of them are gonna let any harm come to these kids. there’s hobson, that babtis preacher; deacon lot hovey; ben rucker; abner shackleford; levi bell the lawyer; dr. robinson and their wives; widow bartley; and a bunch more—these were peter’s ride-or-die homies, always gettin’ shoutouts in his letters back home—so harvey will know exactly where to find some real ones when he rolls in.

the old man kept grillin’ the kid with questions until he drained him dry—askin’ about everyone and everythin’ in that blessed town, all about the wilkses; peter’s gig as a tanner; george’s hustle as a carpenter; harvey’s time as a rebel minister; and on and on. then he goes, "yo, why’d you trek all the way up to this steamboat?"

"cuz it’s a major orleans boat, and i was lowkey scared it wouldn’t stop here. when they’re deep in the water, they don’t drop for a hail. a cincinnati boat would, but this one’s all st. louis style."

"yo, was peter wilks loaded?"

"oh, for sure—he had cribs, land, and word is he stashed three or four grand in cash somewhere."

"when did you say he kicked the bucket?"

"i didn’t drop that deets, but it was last night."

"funeral tomorrow, then?"

"yeah, smack in the middle of the day."

"man, that’s mad tragic; but we gotta bounce eventually. so we just gotta be ready, then we’re all good."

"facts, sir, that’s the best play. ma always used to say that."

when we hit the boat, they were almost done loadin’ up, and soon she dipped. the king never even mentioned jumpin’ aboard, so i totally lost my ride. when the boat bounced, the king had me paddle another mile to a loner spot, then he hopped ashore and goes:

"yo, hustle back right now and scoop up the duke and the new carpet bags. and if the duke’s slidin’ on over to the other side, go grab him. tell him to roll up regardless—move it, now."

i caught his drift, but kept quiet, of course. when i got back with the duke, we stashed the canoe, then they plopped down on a log while the king spilled every single deets exactly as the kid had laid it out—every damn word. all the while, king was tryna sound proper english-like; and for a total slacker, he nailed it pretty well. i can’t even pull that off, so i ain’t tryna; but seriously, he did a bang-up job. then he goes:

"so, how you doin' on the mute act, bilgewater?"

the duke was like, "chill, leave him be—he was just playin’ the mute on stage." then they kicked it while waitin’ for a steamboat.

around mid-afternoon, a couple of little boats floated by, but they weren’t comin’ high enough up the river; then finally a big one showed up, and they hailed her. she sent out her yawl and we hopped aboard—turns out she was from cincinnati; but when they peeped that we only wanted to cruise four or five miles, they flipped out, cussin’ us out and sayin’ they weren’t gonna drop us. but the king came through. he says:

“yo, if them classy gents are cool droppin’ a buck per mile just to get scooped up and dropped off in a lil’ boat, and a steamboat’s legit able to haul ‘em around, ain’t that the vibe, no cap?”

so they chilled out and was like, “aight, we’re set,” and when we rolled into the village, they dropped our asses off from the yawl. like, about two dozen dudes swarmed down when they peeped the yawl comin’ up, and then the king goes off:

“any of you fine gentlemen know where mr. peter wilks is posted?”

they exchanged looks and nodded like, “yo, what do you need?” then one of ‘em, all soft-spoken and chill, goes:

“my bad, sir, but the best we can do is drop you the deets on where he was chillin’ last evening.”

suddenly, quicker than a blink, this crusty old dude lost his chill—he smashed into the guy, leaned his chin on his shoulder, and started ranting down his back, like:

“damn, damn, our poor bro is ghost—gone, and we never even got to peep him; oh, it’s way too harsh!”

then he spins around, bawlin’ his eyes out, flingin’ a bunch of goofy hand signs at the duke, and, no cap, he even drops his carpet-bag and loses it crying. i mean, if there ever were two clapped-out scam artists, these two were peak.

next, the dudes all huddled up, throwin’ out all sorts of kind words while lugging their carpet-bags up the hill, lettin’ the crybaby duo lean on ‘em and unload their feels. they spilled all the tea ‘bout the king’s bro’s final moments, and then the king recapped every single deet to the duke—both of ‘em mournin’ that dead tanner like they’d just lost the twelve ultimate squad members. i swear, if i ever saw anything like that, i’m a nay nay. it was enough to make anyone lose faith in humanity, no cap.