chapter xx.

they fired off a ton of questions, all like, “why you decking out the raft like that and chillin’ in the daytime instead of bouncin’—was jim a runaway nay nay?”

bro, come on, would a runaway nay nay even roll down south?

nah, they were straight-up like, “no way.” i had to spin a tale, so i said:

“my fam was chillin’ in pike county, missouri—where i popped into this world—and everyone died except me, pa, and my bro ike. pa had planned to split and bounce to live with uncle ben, who’s rockin’ a one-horse crib on the river, like forty-four miles down from orleans. pa was hella broke and had mad debts; so when he squared things up over there, all we got was sixteen bucks and our nay nay, jim. sixteen bucks wasn’t enough to take us on a fourteen-hundred-mile cruise—not by deck passage or any other way. but then, when the river started risin’, pa got lucky one day; he snagged some random piece of a raft, so we figured we’d ride it down to orleans. turns out, pa’s luck totally tanked—a steamboat crushed the forward corner of the raft one night, and we all went overboard, plunging under the wheel; jim and i surfaced okay, but pa was wasted, and little ike was only four, so they never saw him again. for the next day or two, we had mad drama, cuz folks kept showin’ up in skiffs tryin’ to snatch jim away, claimin’ he was a runaway nay nay. now, we don’t roll by day; they leave us alone at night.”

the duke chimed in, “leave me alone to cook up a plan so we can dip in the daylight if we want. i’ll crunch some thoughts and whip up a fix. we’ll let it ride for today, ‘cause obviously we don’t wanna cruise past that town in the sun—it might bring some toxic vibes.”

as night crept in, the skies got dark and started lookin’ rainy; heat lightning was flexin’ low in the sky and even the leaves were shivering—it was gonna be a hot mess, no lie. so the duke and the king bounced over to check out our wigwam, scopin’ the beds. my bed was a straw upgrade compared to jim’s corny corn-shuck bed—those shuck beds always come with rogue cobs that poke you and hurt like crazy; and when you roll over, the dry shucks rustle like a pile of dead leaves, loud enough to wake you up. the duke was like, “i’ll take your bed,” but the king shot back, “nah, i ain’t down with that.” he goes:

“i figured the rank diff means a corn-shuck bed just ain’t fit for a royal like me. your grace, snag that shuck bed yourself.”

jim and i got hella anxious for a minute, worryin’ more drama was comin’ between them; so we were super relieved when the duke said:

“’tis my fate to be forever mashed into the grime under the iron heel of oppression. misfortune has totally smashed my once high-key spirit; i yield, i submit—this is my lot. i’m all alone in this world—let me take the heat, i got this.”

we dipped as soon as it got dark and solid. the king ordered us to stick out toward the middle of the river and keep our light on lockdown until we cruised way past the town. soon enough, we spotted a little cluster of lights—that was the town—and slid by, about a half mile out. once we were three-quarters of a mile past, we hoisted up our signal lantern; and around ten o’clock, the sky went berserk—rain, wind, thunder, lightning, the whole nine yards. the king told us to keep watch until the storm eased up; then he and the duke crawled into the wigwam to crash for the night. it was my watch till midnight, but i wouldn’t have crashed even if i had a bed, ‘cause no one sees a storm like that every week, trust. damn, the wind was literally screaming! every couple seconds, a flicker would zap, lighting the whitecaps for half a mile, making the islands look dusty through the rain, and the trees were flailing like they were in a mosh pit; then bam—whack! bum! bumble, um, bam-bam-bam—and the thunder rumbled then died, only to come back with another crazy flash and hit. the waves even tossed me off the raft sometimes, but i had no threads on, so i was chill. and we didn’t even sweat over snags; the lightning was bouncing around so much that we could dodge any obstacles by flickin’ the raft this way or that.

i was on the middle watch, but i was dead sleepy, so jim covered the first half—he’s always been dope like that. i crawled into the wigwam, but the king and the duke had their legs sprawled everywhere, leaving me with no spot; so i ended up chillin’ outside. i didn’t mind the rain, ‘cause it was warm and the waves weren’t too bossy then. around two, jim was about to call me, but he switched it up, thinkin’ the waves were too weak to harm; but damn, i was caught off guard when a massive surge came outta nowhere and tossed me overboard. jim almost died laughin’—he was the easiest nay nay to crack up, no cap.

i grabbed the rest of the watch while jim crashed and started snorin’. eventually, the storm dipped for real, and the moment a cabin-light popped up, i hauled him out and we slid the raft into a secret hideout for the day.

after breakfast, the king whipped out an old, ratty deck of cards, and he and the duke played seven-up for a hot minute—five cents a game. then they got bored and decided to “lay out a campaign,” as they called it. the duke dove into his carpet-bag and pulled out a stack of printed bills, readin’ ‘em loud. one bill said, “the celebrated dr. armand de montalban, of paris,” was gonna “lecture on the science of phrenology” at such-and-such a spot on a certain day, charging ten cents at the door, and “dishing out character charts for twenty-five cents a pop.” the duke claimed that was him. in another bill, he was billed as the “world-renowned shakespearian tragedian, garrick the younger, of drury lane, london.” on other bills, he rocked a bunch of names and bragged about epic feats like findin’ water and gold with a “divining-rod” and “dissipatin’ witch spells,” and more. eventually he goes:

“but yo, the histrionic muse is the real bae. have you ever hit the stage, royalty?”

“nah,” says the king.

“then you will, before you hit three extra days, fallen grandeur,” says the duke. “the first legit town we roll into, we’re gonna rent a hall and throw down a swordfight scene from richard iii, and then smash out the balcony scene from romeo and juliet. how’s that vibe?”

“i’m down, to the max, for anything that pays, bilgewater; but, like, i don’t know squat about actin’ and never really peeped much of it. i was just a mini when pap had ‘em at the palace. think you can school me?”

“easy!”

“aight. i’m just hella bored and in need of something fresh anyway. let’s kick this off right now.”

so the duke broke it all down—who romeo was and who juliet was—and said he was so used to rockin’ romeo that the king could totally be juliet.

“but if juliet’s that young, duke, my bald dome and white whiskers might look hella extra on her, maybe.”

“nah, don’t trip; these country dudes won’t even clock that. plus, you’ll be in full costume, which makes all the difference; juliet’s chillin’ in a balcony, soaking in the moonlight before she crashes, rockin’ her nightgown and a ruffled nightcap. here, peep the outfits for the roles.”

the duke whipped out two or three curtain-calico suits, claimin’ they were meedyevil armor for richard iii. (and the other part, too) plus a long white cotton nightshirt and a ruffled nightcap to match. the king was down with it; so the duke pulled out his book and went ham, readin’ the lines in the most over-the-top, spread-eagle style—prancin’ around and actin’ it out to show how it was gonna go down—then passed the book to the king and told him to memorize his part.

there was this tiny one-horse town like three miles down the bend, and after dinner the duke was like, “yo, i mapped out a plan so we can cruise in the daylight without any major hazards for jim.” so he said he’d bounce to the town to lock that plan in. the king was like, “i’m in too,” to see if he could snag some ideas. we were all out of coffee, so jim was like, “yo, you better jump in the canoe with us and score some caffeine.”

when we rolled into town, there was zero action; the streets were empty, dead quiet—like a chill sunday. we ran into a sick nay nay catchin’ rays in a backyard, and he was like, “yo, everyone who isn’t too young, too sick, or too old bounced to a camp meeting about two miles back in the woods.” the king snagged the directions and said he’d roll up and run that camp meeting to the max, and i could tag along.

the duke dropped that he was after a printing-office. we scoped one out—a tiny joint above a carpenter shop (since the carpenters and printers all dipped for the meeting, leaving the doors unlocked). the place was mad messy, covered in ink stains and plastered with flyers showin’ horses and runaway nay nays all over the walls. the duke tossed off his coat and was like, “i’m all good now.” so the king and i bounced over to the camp meeting.

we got there in like half an hour, soaked to the bone ‘cause it was a blazing hot day. there were, like, a thousand people from twenty miles around. the woods were packed with teams and wagons everywhere, munchin’ straight outta wagon troughs and stompin’ to shake off the flies. there were makeshift sheds built from poles and branches, sellin’ lemonade, gingerbread, and stacks of watermelons, green corn, and all that truck.

the preachin’ was poppin’ off under similar sheds—only bigger—to host massive crowds. the benches were made of rough-hewn log slabs with holes drilled on the sides for legs (no backs, nada). the preachers stood on high platforms at one end of the sheds. the women rocked sun-bonnets; some sported linsey-woolsey frocks, some rocked gingham, and a few young ones had on calico. some of the young men were barefoot, and some kiddos only had a tow-linen shirt on. a few old ladies were knittin’, while some of the young ones were lowkey flirtin’ on the down-low.

the first shed we hit, the preacher was out here droppin’ a fire hymn. he belted out two dope lines, and the whole squad was vibin’ hard, no cap—it was lit hearin’ so many peeps join in, all rallyin’ in mad hype; then he dropped another two lines for the crew to blast out—and the flow kept goin’.

the crowd got more woke by the minute, singin’ louder and louder; and as things escalated, some folks started groanin’ while others started hollerin’.

then our dude preacher kicked into full sermon mode, no joke; he was weavin’ all over the platform—first to one side, then the other, then leanin’ down over the front—with his whole body in constant motion, shoutin’ his gospel like he was livestreamin’ his soul. every now and then he’d hoist up his bible, flip it open like a prized playlist, and pass it around like it was the ultimate remix, yellin’, “it’s the brazen serpent in the wilderness! look upon it and live!”

and the peeps would roar back, “glory!—a-a-men!” as he kept goin’, while the crowd kept groanin’, cryin’, and shoutin’ amen like it was the hottest drop of the year:

“oh, slide up to the mourners’ bench! slide, you’re drippin’ with sin! (amen!)
slide, you’re all sick and sore! (amen!)
slide, you’re lame, busted, and blind! (amen!)
slide, you’re broke and needy, drownin’ in shame! (a-a-men!)
slide, all you worn, soiled, and hurt souls—come with a broken vibe!
slide with that lowkey spirit! roll in with your rags, sins, and grime!
the free cleanse waters are on deck, the door to heaven is wide open—oh, step in and chill!” (a-a-men! glory, glory hallelujah!)

and so on. you couldn’t peep a word of the preacher ‘cause the shoutin’ and cryin’ was off the charts. folks busted up all over the place, hustlin’ with pure grind energy to reach the mourners’ bench, tears runnin’ down like waterfalls; and when every single soul gathered up front, they sang, screamed, and flung themselves down on the straw, straight-up wild and chaotic.

so, first off, i peeped that the king was already kickin’ things off, his voice boomin’ over the rest; then he charged up on the platform, and the preacher was like, “yo, drop some words for the squad,” and the king did his thing.

he declared he was a legit pirate—had been pillagin’ the indian ocean for like thirty years—and his crew got thinned out major last spring in a wild fight. now he’s back on home turf lookin’ to recruit fresh blood, and lowkey, he was hyped ‘cause he got jacked off a steamboat last night, left with not a dime, and he was straight-up grateful; it was the dopest blessing ever, ‘cause he was a changed man now, finally happy af. even though he was broke as heck, he was ready to hustle his way back to the indian ocean, spendin’ the rest of his life tryna flip those pirates onto the righteous grind; 'cause yo, he knew every pirate crew out there better than anyone else; and even if it meant a long, no-cash journey, he’d make it happen—every time he convinced a pirate, he’d be like, “don’t thank me, don’t give me that credit; it’s all for those dear peeps at the pokeville camp-meeting, our natural fam and true benefactors—and that real-deal preacher over there, the truest friend a pirate could ever have!”

then he busted into tears, and soon enough, everybody joined in. then someone hollered, “yo, collect a stash for him, collect a stash!” like half a dozen jumped in immediately, but then someone else was like, “nah, let him pass his hat around!” and soon the whole squad—preacher included—was chanting that.

so the king swaggered through the crowd with his hat dabbin’ his eyes, blessin’ and praising everyone for bein’ so cool to the poor pirate homies down the river; and every so often, the flyest girls, tears streamin’ down their cheeks, would roll up askin’ if they could plant a kiss on him to remember the moment; and he was always game—huggin’ and kissin’ some up to five or six times—and even got invited to crash for a week; everyone wanted him to move in with ’em and called it an honor; but he was like, “nah, it’s the last day of the camp-meeting, i can’t do any good here, plus i’m sweatin’ bullets to hit up the indian ocean and work on my pirate hustle.”

when we bounced back to the raft and did the count, he clocked eighty-seven dollars and seventy-five cents in the bag. plus, he had scored a three-gallon jug of whisky he found chillin’ under a wagon while headin’ home through the woods. the king was like, “take all this, fam—it tops any day i’ve ever spent on that missionary grind.” he was straight up sayin’ there’s no point in yappin’, ‘cause heathens don’t measure up to pirates when it comes to rockin’ a camp-meeting.

the duke was feelin’ like he’d been killin’ it until the king showed up, and then his vibe kinda dropped. he’d already printed two mini gigs for local farmers—horse bills—and pocketed four bucks from that. plus, he scooped up ten dollars’ worth of ads for the paper, sayin’ he’d put ‘em in for just four bucks if paid upfront—and they did. the paper normally cost two dollars a year, but he snagged three subs for fifty cents each on the promise of advance cash; the locals were gonna pay in cordwood and onions like usual, but he was like, “i just copped this biz and knocked the price down as low as i can swing, and now i’m runnin’ it for cash.” he even whipped up a little piece of poetry straight from his brain—three verses, kinda sweet and sad—the title bein’, “yes, crush, cold world, this breaking heart”—and left it queued up to print for free. in the end, he raked in nine dollars and a half and declared it a pretty square day’s hustle.

then he showed us another mini job he’d printed for free, just for our crew. it had a pic of a runaway nay nay with a bundle on a stick over his shoulder, and “$200 reward” stamped underneath. the flyer was all about jim, layin’ out his deets to a tee: it said he bailed from st. jacques’ plantation, like, forty miles below new orleans last winter, and probably bounced up north—and whoever could nab him and ship him back would score the reward plus expenses.

“now,” the duke declares, “after tonight we can flex and run in the daylight if we feel like it. anytime we spot someone comin’, we can rope jim up, tie him hand and foot, dump him in the wigwam, flash this flyer, and say we caught him up the river ‘cause we were too broke for a steamboat, so we had to grab this tiny raft on credit from our crew to chase that reward. sure, handcuffs and chains would give jim a next-level look, but that just wouldn’t jive with our broke aesthetic—way too extra. ropes, my friends—we gotta keep it 100, as we always say on the boards.”

we all were like, the duke’s mad smart, and runnin’ in the daylight wouldn’t be no issue. we figured we could clock enough miles that night to bounce outta the heat the duke’s printing hustle was about to stir up in that tiny town; and then we could boom on the move if we wanted to.

we kept it lowkey and stayed still, not poppin’ off until nearly ten o’clock; then we slid past, keepin’ mad distance from town, and didn’t hoist our lantern until we were way out of its insta-reach.

when jim hit me up at four in the morning to take the watch, he was like:
“huck, u think we finna run into any mo’ kings on this trip?”
“no,” i replied, “i reckon not.”
“well,” he goes, “that’s cool then. i ain’t about one or two kings, but that’s plenty. this dude’s a hardcore drunk, and the duke ain’t any better.”

i noticed jim had been tryna get him to spit some french, just to vibe with it; but he was like, “i’ve been in this country so long and been through so much, i straight-up forgot it.”