chapter xli.

the doc was one of those old school dudes; a genuinely nice, kind-lookin’ old man when i hauled him up. i told him that me and my bro had been chillin’ on spanish island huntin’ yesterday afternoon, camped on a random piece of raft we scored, and that ‘round midnight his gun totally went off in his dream—like, it legit shot him in the leg—and we needed him to roll over there, fix that mess, and keep it on the down low, no cap, ‘cause we wanted to roll back home this evenin’ and totally surprise the folks.

“who’s your folks?” he asked.

“the phelpses, down yonder.”

“oh,” he replied. then after a minute he goes:

“how’d you say he got shot?”

“he was dreamin’, and his dream straight-up shot him,” i answered.

“singular dream,” he muttered.

so he lit up his lantern, grabbed his saddle-bags, and we bounced. but when he peeped the canoe, he wasn’t feeling its vibe—said it was big enough for one ride but looked sus for two. i was like:

yo, don’t even stress, sir, that ride carried the whole squad like it was no biggie.

“what three?”
“yo, it’s me, sid, and, uh, the guns – that’s what i’m sayin’.”

“oh,” he goes, but then he drops his foot on the boat’s gunnel, starts rockin’ her like a seasoned pro, shakes his head, and goes, “i’mma scope out a bigger ride.” but all the gear was locked down and chained up tight, so he scooped my canoe and told me, “chill till i bounce back, or go ghost around some more, or even dip home and prep for the epic surprise if that’s your vibe.” i was like, “nah, i’m good,” so i dropped the deets on how to find the raft and then he dipped.

i peeped an idea real quick. i was thinkin’, if he can’t fix that busted leg in like three shakes of a sheep’s tail (you know the meme), and it ends up takin’ him like three or four days, then what’s the move? you just gonna sit and wait for him to spill all the tea? nah, fam; i got a plan. i’ll just hold it down, and when he rolls back and goes, “i gotta dip,” i’ll dive in—even if i gotta swim—and we’ll snare him, tie him up, and push his sorry behind down the river; then when tom’s done with him, we’ll cash out whatever we got and let him hit shore.

so i snuck into a lumber pile to catch some z’s; next thing i know, the sun’s flexin’ high above my head! i bolted out and cruised over to the doc’s pad, but they were like, “nah, he bounced sometime during the night and ain’t back yet.” i was like, that’s super sus for tom, so i bounced straight to the island. as i turned the corner, i nearly clowned myself and bumped into uncle silas’s gut!

he goes, “yo, tom! where you been, you little rascal?”

“i ain’t been nowhere,” i say, “just on the prowl huntin’ that runaway nay nay—with sid.”

“so, where’d you dip off to? your auntie was hella uneasy.”

“she ain’t gotta be, cuz we were all good. we followed the dudes and the dogs, but they totally outsped us and we lost ’em; then we thought we caught a vibe of ‘em floatin’ on the water, so we snagged a canoe, chased after ‘em, crossed over, but came up empty; so we cruised along the shore till we got beat, tied up the canoe, and crashed hard—only wakin’ up about an hour ago; then we paddled over here to catch the tea, with sid on detective duty at the post office trying to sniff out deets, and me off to snag some grub, then we bounce home.”

so we hit up the post office to scoop sid, but, low-key, he was MIA. the old dude pulled a letter out of the office and we chilled a bit longer, but sid still ghosted. then the old man was like, “yo, let sid hoof it back home or canoe it when he’s done clownin’, but y’all gotta ride.” i tried to stall for sid, but he shut it down – “ain’t no point, you gotta bounce with us and show aunt sally we’re straight.”

when we rolled up to the crib, aunt sally was hyped as heck to see me; she was laughin’, cryin’, and hugging me like a boss, dishing out one of them affectionate smooches that don’t really count as beatdowns, and she promised to serve sid the same realness when he got in.

the place was packed with farmer peeps and their wifeys for dinner—a group chat vibe like no one’s ever seen. old mrs. hotchkiss was a hot mess, her mouth on nonstop troll mode. she blurts:

“well, sister phelps, i went through that air cabin up there and, no cap, that nay nay was straight-up bonkers. i told sister damrell—didn’t i, sister damrell?—yeah, he’s totally off his rocker; everything about him screams crazy. peep that grindstone, fam; you seriously expect anyone in their right mind to scribble mad loco stuff on a grindstone? like, damn, someone’s been heartbroken for, like, thirty-seven years or whatever—some random son of louis or some eternal trash. dude’s straight-up nuts, i was sayin’ it then, in the middle, and at the end too—this nay nay is crazy crazy, crazy as nebokoodneezer.”

“and check that rag ladder made outta scraps, sister hotchkiss,” old mrs. damrell chimes in, “what on god’s name could he even need that for—”

“yo, i was literally just spillin’ this tea to sister utterback, and she vibes with it too. peep that rag ladder; like, what did he even wanna do with it? sister hotchkiss, you feel me—”

“but fr, how the heck did they even drop that grindstone in there? and who even dug that hole? who—”

“ayyo, my words, brer penrod! i was straight-up sayin’—pass that extra class, ya feel?—i was just askin’ sister dunlap right now, how did they get that grindstone in there all by themselves? no cap, i bet a whole squad helped out; i’d tear down every single nay nay in this joint just to peep who did it, no cap; and moreover—”

“a dozen, you say? nah, even forty wouldn’t cover all that work. peep those case-knife saws and the extra details; look at that bed-leg hacked off—a week’s grind for six bros; and peep that nay nay turned into a straw bed—yo, and—”

“you can say that, brer hightower! it’s exactly what i was tellin’ brer phelps himself. sister hotchkiss, what’s your take? brer phelps, think about that bed-leg chopped off like that—i swear it didn’t just fall off by itself; someone actually sawed it, no cap; that’s my vibe—take it or leave it, might not be gospel, but that’s how i see it. if anyone can drop a better theory, let ‘em try. i was spillin’ these deets to sister dunlap—”

“yo, dog my cats, there must’ve been a whole house full of nay nay in there every night for like four weeks to pull off all that madness, sister phelps. peep that shirt—every inch scribbled with some secret african text done in blood! bet they were busy on that non-stop. i’d drop two bucks to have it read to me; and as for the nay nay who penned it, i swear i’d cuff every single one of ‘em—”

someone goes, “yo, doc, that sounds lit, i’m vibe-checking that.” then the rest of the crew chilled out a bit, and i was mad thankful to that old doc for doing jim such a solid; i was stoked it matched my own vibe of him, ‘cause i always thought he had a dope heart from day one. so everyone agreed that jim had played his role big time and deserved a shout-out and mad props. they all straight-up promised, full-on, that they wouldn’t drop any more harsh words on him.

then they hauled him out and locked him up. i low-key hoped they’d ease up—maybe ditch a chain or two ‘cause they were hella heavy, or even hook him up with some meat and greens with his bread and water—but nah, they didn’t even consider it, and i figured best not to meddle. i vowed i’d slide the doc’s full yarn to aunt sally as soon as i navigated through the breakers just ahead, to drop the tea on how i totally forgot to mention sid got shot when me and him were paddlin’ hard that wild night hunting the runaway nay nay.

i had plenty of time, though. aunt sally holed up in the sickroom all day and night, and every time i spotted uncle silas mooning around, i dipped.

next mornin’, word was tom was way better, and they said aunt sally dipped for a nap. so i slid over to the sickroom thinkin’ if i found him awake, we could spin a story for the fam that would fly. but he was deep asleep—mad peaceful and pale, way less feisty than his usual self. so i sat and waited for him to wake. in about half an hour, aunt sally glides in, and there i am, right back on deck! she signals for me to keep it low, sits beside me, and starts whisperin’, sayin’ we can all chill now ‘cause his symptoms were 10/10, and he’d been in that deep sleep forever, lookin’ smoother and more peaceful by the second, and like, ten out of ten, he’d wake up on point.

then, when i bounced up to crash, she came over, grabbed her candle, tucked me in proper, and mothered me so hard i felt all kinds of guilty—like, i couldn’t even peep her face; she then sat on the bed and chatted for a hot minute, goin’ on about how amazeballs sid was, and she literally couldn’t stop talkin’ ‘bout him. every now and then, she’d ask if i thought he might’ve gotten lost, hurt, or even drowned—like, maybe he was out there suffering or straight-up dead right now with no one to help—her tears droppin’ silent while i reassured her that sid was chill and would be home by morn, for sure; she’d squeeze my hand, maybe drop a kiss, and tell me to say it all over again ‘cause it calmed her down, since she was so stressed. and as she was bouncin’ off, she locked eyes with me, steady and soft, and goes,

“the door ain’t gonna be locked, tom, and there’s the window and the rod; but you’re gonna be good, right? and you ain’t gonna bounce? for my sake.”

lawd, i was hella hyped to check on tom and was ready to jet, but after that, i straight-up bailed—i wouldn’t go, not even for kingdoms.

still, she was on my mind and tom was on my mind, so i slept all restless. twice in the night, i slid down that rod, crept around the front, and peeped her chillin’ by the window with her candle, eyes glued to the road and filled with tears; i wished i could do something for her, but i was stuck, only swearin’ i’d never do anything to stress her out again. then on the third try at dawn, i woke, slid down, and caught her still there, candle nearly burnt out, her old gray dome resting on her hand, deep asleep.