chapter xxxiv.

we clammed up and started thinking. after a minute, tom hits, “yo, huck, how dumb are we for not peepin’ it earlier! bet i got the deets on where jim’s hidin’.”

huck fired, “nah! where tho?”

tom replied, “in that shack down by the ash-hopper. peep this: when we were chowin’ down, you saw a nay nay dude roll in with some vittles, right?”

“yeah.”

“what did you reckon that grub was for?”

“for a dog, obviously.”

“same, i thought so—but turns out it wasn’t for a dog.”

“why?”

“’cause part of it was watermelon.”

“so it was—i peeped that. honestly, it beats all thinkin’ about a dog not munchin’ on watermelon. it’s wild how you can be seein’ and not seein’ at the same time.”

“yo, check it—this nay nay unlocked the padlock when he bounced in, then re-locked it on his way out. he even grabbed uncle a key around the time we got off the table—same key, bet. watermelon vibes show a man, and a lock screams ‘prisoner’; and there’s no way there’s two prisoners on such a tiny plantation where everyone’s chill and on their best behavior. jim’s the prisoner. aight—i’m hyped we cracked it detective-style; i wouldn’t trade that method for any other. now, flex your brain and cook up a plan to liberate jim, and i’ll do the same; and we’ll roll with whichever plan vibes best.”

damn, what mad brainpower for just a kid to rock! if i had tom sawyer’s noggin, i wouldn’t swap it for a duke title, a steamboat gig, a circus clown job, or anything wild i can think of. i started brainstorming a plan, but just to keep busy ‘cause i knew the perfect plan would drop eventually.

real quick, tom bounced and went, “ready?”

“yeah,” i replied.

“cool, lay it out.”

huck kicked in, “so here’s the plan: we can low-key scope out if jim’s in there. then, tomorrow night, i’ll pull up my canoe and grab my raft from the island. when the first dark night hits, we swipe the key from the old man’s britches after he crashes, and then bounce down the river on the raft with jim—hiding by day and sprinting by night, just like old times. bet that plan would totally work, right?”

tom dropped, “work? for sure it’d work hard, like rats fighting over cheese, but it’s way too basic; not enough sauce. what’s the point of a plan that’s as bland as goose-milk? it wouldn’t cause any buzz—kinda like breakin’ into a soap factory would be.”

i clammed up ‘cause i wasn’t tryna hear extra, but i knew deep down that whenever tom dropped his plan, there’d be zero fuss over objections.

and, no cap, he laid it out—and i peeped that it had mad style, worth like fifteen of my cents, and would free jim just as legit, though maybe get us all toasted. i was down, and said we’d roll with it. i don’t even gotta spill the deets here ‘cause i knew it wouldn’t stick as it was; i knew he’d be switchin’ it up every which way, droppin’ new twists whenever he could. and that’s exactly what went down.

but one thing was crystal clear: tom sawyer was 100% serious about helping snatch that nay nay outta slavery. and that was just too extra for me. here was a kid supposed to be all respectable and well-brought-up—with a solid rep, a good family, bright as hell and not bonehead-level dumb, kind instead of mean—and yet he was willingly stooping so low, makin’ a total shame of himself and his fam in front of everyone. i just couldn’t vibe with it. it was straight-up outrageous, and i figured i needed to call him out, be a real friend, and tell him to scrap this hustle and save himself. i started to speak up, but he cut me off, saying,

“don’t you reckon i know what i’m about? don’t i seriously know what i’m about?”

“yeah,” i said.

“didn’t i say i was gonna help snatch the nay nay?”

“yeah.”

“well, then.”

that was it—words were done. there was no point saying more; when tom said he’d do somethin’, he always came through. still, i couldn’t wrap my head around how far he was willing to go with this, so i let it slide and never pressed further. if that’s just how he rolled, i couldn’t do much about it.

when we got back home, the place was dark and dead quiet; so we dipped down to the hut by the ash-hopper to scope it out. we rolled through the yard to peep how the hounds would react—they knew us well and were as quiet as any country dogs get when somethin’ stumbles by at night.

once we reached the cabin, we peeped the front and both sides; on the north side—the one i wasn’t too familiar with—we discovered a square window hole set pretty high, with one stout board nailed across it. i said,

“this is our ticket. this hole’s legit big enough for jim to squeeze through if we just pop off that board.”

tom chimed in, “it’s as straightforward as tic-tac-toe, three in a row, and as chill as skipping class. i mean, i hope we can flex a plan with a bit more flavor than that, huck finn.”

huck fired back, “so how ‘bout we saw him out, like i did before i got, well, ‘murdered’ that time?”

“now that’s more like it,” tom said. “it’s hella mysterious, tricky, and dope; but i bet we can cook up something twice as epic. no rush—let’s keep scoping around.”

between the hut and the fence at the back, there was a lean-to that jutted off the hut at the eaves, built out of plank. it was as long as the hut but narrow—only about six feet wide. its door was on the south end and was padlocked. tom bounced over to the soap-kettle, rummaged around, and grabbed that iron tool they use to pop lids; he used it to pry out one of the staples. the chain dropped, and we popped open the door, slipped inside, shut it, struck a match, and peeped that the shed was just slapped up against the cabin with no real connection—no floor inside, just a bunch of old rusty, busted hoes, spades, picks, and a beaten-down plow. the match fizzled out, so we put the staple back in, locking the door up tight. tom was stoked and goes,

“now we’re solid. we’ll dig him out—should take about a week, fr!”

then we bounced back for the house, and i slipped in through the back door—you just gotta tug a buckskin latch-string since they don’t lock ‘em—but that wasn’t epic enough for tom sawyer; nah, he had to go climb the lightning-rod. after half climbing it about three times, nearly getting singed and falling each time—and the last time almost busting his noggin—he was like, “aight, i’m done,” but after catchin’ his breath, he decided to give it one more go, and this time, he actually made the climb.

so, like, at daybreak we were hella up and rolled out right at sunrise, then dipped to the nay nay cabins to pet the dogs and chill with the nay nay who fed jim—if jim was even the one gettin fed, no cap. the whole nay nay crew was just finishing up their brekkie and bouncin’ for the fields; meanwhile, jim’s nay nay was lowkey stacking a tin pan with bread, meat, and all that grub, and while the rest were bouncin’, the key slid out from the crib.

this nay nay had a chill, goofy mug, and his wool was all tied up in lil bundles with thread—lowkey to keep off any witch vibes. he was complainin’ that these damn witches had been buggin’ him hardcore on the reg, makin’ him see some seriously trippy stuff and hear all kinds of odd noises, and he swore he’d never been hit with witchcraft like that in his whole life. he got so hyped talkin’ about his drama that he straight-up forgot what he was supposeda do. then tom pops off:

"what’s the vittles for? going to feed the dogs?"

the nay nay slowly breaks into a grin, spreadin’ across his face like when you lob a brick into a mud puddle, and he goes:

"yeah, mars sid, a dog. a cur’us dog, too. you wanna go check him out?"

tom just goes, "yes."

i huddled tom up and whispered, "yo, you rollin’ out here at daybreak? that weren't the plan, fam."

tom be like, "nah, it wasn't; but it's the plan now."

so, damn, we rolled along even though i wasn’t feelin’ it much. when we rolled in, it was so dark i could barely see a thing; but jim was posted there, no cap, and hollered, "yo, huck! en good lan’! ain’t that mista tom?"

i was like, i totally knew this was comin’. i had zero clue what to do, and even if i did, i couldn’ta pulled it off, cuz then that nay nay busted in and goes, "why, de gracious sakes! do he know you genlmen?"

we could see clear as day now. tom peered at the nay nay, all chill and kinda puzzled, and goes, "yo, does anyone know us?" the nay nay snaps back, "why, dis-yer runaway nay nay." tom goes, "i don’t reckon he does; but what made that pop into your head?" the nay nay answers, "what made it pop? didn’t he just sing out like he knew you?" then tom, all puzzled, goes, "bruh, that’s hella curious. who dropped the tune? when did he drop it? what did he even sing?" he turns to me, all cool, and asks, "did you catch anyone singin’?"

of course, there wasn’t much to add, so i said, "no; i ain’t heard nobody say nothin’." then tom turned to jim, eyeballin’ him like a stranger, and asked, "did you drop any lines?" jim replied, "no, sah, i haven’t said nothin’, sah." "not a word?" "no, sah, not one word." "did you ever peep us before?" "no, sah; not as i knows on."

then tom turned to the nay nay—who looked all wild and stressed—and said, all serious, "yo, what’s wrong with you anyway? what made you think somebody dropped a tune?" the nay nay goes, "oh, it’s the damn witches, sah; and i wish i was dead, i do. they’re always on my case, sah, messin’ with my head so bad they nearly kill me. please, don’t spill the tea about it, sah, cuz old mars silas will come down on me hard—’kase he says there ain’t no witches. i just wish, like, the goodness of all things that he was here now—imagine what he’d say! i bet he wouldn’t be able to figure out a way around this mess this time. but it’s always like that; trash people stay trash—they won’t even try to work stuff out on their own, and when you do and drop the deets, they don’t believe you."

tom slides him a dime and goes, "we won’t snitch on you," then tells him to cop some more thread to tie up his wool. he turns to jim and adds, "i wonder if uncle silas is gonna hang this nay nay. if i copped a nay nay that was ungrateful enough to dip, i wouldn’t hand him over—I’d hang him, no cap." while the nay nay stepped to the door to peep the dime and nibble on it to check if it was legit, he leaned in to jim and whispered, "yo, never let them know who we are. and if you hear any late-night diggin’, know it’s us—we’re fixin’ to set you free." jim only had time to grab our hands and squeeze ‘em; then the nay nay bounced back, and we said we’d roll by again sometime if he wanted us to; and he agreed—especially if it got dark, cuz the witches hit him hardest in the dark, and it’s chill when you got peeps around.