chapter xxxix.

in the morning, we hit up the village, copped a wire rat-trap, dragged it back, and busted open the dopest rat-hole; in like an hour, we scored fifteen of the baddest rats out there. then we tucked 'em safely under aunt sally’s bed. but while we were off ghosting for spiders, lil thomas franklin benjamin jefferson elexander phelps popped by, checked out the spot, and opened the door to see if the rats would roll out—and they did; aunt sally strolled in, and when we got back she was posted up on top of the bed causing absolute mayhem, with the rats doing their best to kill the boredom for her. so she came in and dusted us both with hickory, and we ended up grinding for like two hours to snag another fifteen or sixteen—damn that meddlesome cub—and honestly, they weren’t even as lit as the first haul, which was the absolute pick of the crop. i never peeped a rat crew more next-level than that primo stash.

we then copped a wicked stock of sorted spiders, bugs, frogs, caterpillars, and a whole bunch of random critters—and we kinda wished we had snagged a hornet’s nest, but nah. the fam was chillin’ at home, so we stuck around as long as we could, ‘cause we figured we’d tire ‘em out or they’d tire us out, and they totally did. then we got all allycumpain and rubbed off on the places, and things were nearly vibe-check perfect again, even if we couldn’t set up proper digs. so we dipped for the snakes, grabbed a couple dozen garter and house snakes, tossed ‘em in a bag, and stashed it in our room—and by that time it was supper time, after a rattling good, honest day’s work. hungry? nah, i reckon not! and when we rolled back, not a single snake was chillin’ up there—we barely tied the sack, and they somehow dipped out. but it didn’t even matter ‘cause snakes were still lurking somewhere in the crib. so we figured we could snag some more again. for real, there was zero scarcity of snakes around the house for a hot minute. you’d see ‘em dripping off the rafters and random spots every now and then; they’d even drop into your plate or sneak down the back of your neck—always showing up where you least expect ‘em. yo, they were mad handsome and striped, and a million snakes ain’t no harm, but that never changed aunt sally’s vibe; she straight up despised snakes—no matter the breed—and couldn’t stand ‘em in any shape or form; every time one flopped down on her, no matter what she was doing, she would just drop it all and bolt. i never peeped a woman like that. you could hear her holler all the way to jericho. you couldn’t even get her to grab one with tongs—and if she flipped and found one in bed, she’d scramble out and let loose a howl like you’d think the whole house was on fire. she riled the old man so bad he said he just wished snakes had never been created. like, even after every last snake was hustled out of the house for a week, aunt sally still wasn’t over it—she was still hella triggered; you could even tap her neck with a feather and she’d jump right out of her stockings. it was mad wild. but tom was like, “all women are just built that way.” he claimed they were made like that for some reason or another.

we got smacked down every time one of our snakes slid into her lane, and she was chill with those beatdowns ‘cause they were just a lil’ taste of what she'd drop if we ever crammed the crib with ‘em again. ngl, i wasn’t even shook by the clobbering ‘cause it was nothing major; but i was totally vexed by the extra hassle we had to hustle up another load. but yo, we got it all lined up and all the extra chaos too; and seriously, you ain’t ever peeped a shack as hype as jim’s when the whole squad would swarm out to blast tunes and go off on him. jim wasn’t about that spider life, and the spiders were low-key beefin’ with jim; so they’d always throw down some extra heat for him. and he was like, between the rats, the snakes, and that relentless grindstone, there was literally zero chill space in bed for him, no cap; and even when there was a spot, sleep was a myth ‘cause one crew was always on duty – like, when the snakes were catching z’s, the rats were all over the job, and when the rats crashed, the snakes clocked in – so he always had one gang messin’ with him and the other throwin’ a non-stop rave, and if he ever tried to dip to a new spot the spiders would totally risk him crossing over. he swore that if he ever bounced this time, he’d never be locked down again, not even for a paycheck.

yo, by the end of three weeks everything was looking pretty tight. the shirt got dropped early, snug in a pie, and every time a rat munched on jim, he’d bounce up to scribble some lines in his journal while the ink was still fire; our pens were crafted on point, and all the inscriptions and doodles were straight carved on that grindstone; we even hacked a bed-leg in two, raked up all that sawdust, and it hit us with the most insane stomach cramp ever. we legit thought we were gonna yeet ourselves outta there, but nope. that sawdust was hands down the most undigestible, cringe-inducing mess i’ve ever peeped; and tom was vibing the same.

but yo, as i was saying, we’d wrapped up all the work, at last; and we were all hella zonked, especially jim. the old man had hit up the plantation below orleans a couple times to come scoop up their runaway nay nay, but didn’t get a single clap back, ‘cause low-key that plantation was a straight-up myth; so he dipped and was like, "i’mma advertise jim in the st. louis and new orleans papers," and when he dropped the st. louis deets it gave me total chills, so i peeped that we had zero time to waste. then tom chimed in, "aight, now for the nonnamous letters."

“what’s them?” i asked, all curious.

“they’re warnings to the peeps that somethin’ major’s poppin’. sometimes it’s dropped one way, sometimes another—but there’s always some nosy snoop peepin’ around to tip off the governor of the castle. remember when louis xvi was about to dip out of the tooleries? a servant girl did it. it’s a mad smart move, and these nonnamous letters work the same. we’ll flex both moves. plus, it’s standard for the prisoner’s mom to swap threads with him so she stays in while he ghost in her fit. we’re gonna roll with that too.”

“but yo, tom, why warn someone that somethin’s up? let ‘em figure it out on their own—it’s their own lookout.”

“yeah, i feel you; but you can’t really count on them. ever since day one they’ve left us hanging, doing all the heavy lifting. they’re so trusting and, like, full-on mullet-brained, they don’t even peep what’s goin’ on. so if we don’t drop a heads up, there’ll be zero interference, and after all our grind this escape will go off slick—no drama, nothing extra.”

“as for me, tom, that’s exactly the vibe i’m down with.”

“shucks!” he snapped, lookin’ all disgusted. so i was like:

“i ain’t gonna throw shade, whatever works for you works for me. so what’s the plan with the servant-girl?”

“you’re gonna be her. just slide in dead midnight and jack that yaller girl’s frock.”

“yo, tom, that’s gonna stir up mad drama the next morn; ‘cause obviously she probably only rocks that one outfit.”

“i know; but you only need it for like fifteen minutes—to hustle the nonnamous letter and shove it under the front door.”

“alright, then, i’ll roll with it; but i could just as easily carry it in my own fit.”

“you wouldn’t be pulling that servant-girl look then, would you?”

“nah, but honestly, no one’s gonna peep what i’m rockin’, anyway.”

“that’s not the point. our job is just to do our duty, no cap, without stressing whether anyone catches us in the act. don’t you got any principle, brah?”

“alright, i ain’t dropping any further words; i’m your servant-girl. so, whose jim’s mom?”

“i’m his mom. i’ll snag a gown from aunt sally.”

“then you gotta crash in the cabin when jim and i dip.”

“low-key, here’s the twist: i’ll jack jim’s gear, pack it with straw, and lay it on his bed to pose as his mom in disguise, and jim’ll swipe the nay nay woman’s gown off of me and rock it—so we all dip together. when a style prisoner escapes, it’s called an evasion. it’s always called that when a king bails, for real. and same goes for a king’s kid; whether he’s natural or not don’t mean a thing.”

so tom scribbled up the nonnamous letter, and that night i smooshed the yaller wench’s frock, threw it on, and shoved it under the front door just like tom said. it read:

beware. trouble is brewing. keep a sharp lookout. unknown friend.

the very next night we slapped up a pic—which tom drew in blood—of a skull and crossbones on the front door; and the following night, another one of a coffin on the back door. i never witnessed a fam so shook. they were legit tripping, like, they’d have been even more scared if the place was crawling with ghosts lurking behind every corner, under every bed, shivering in the air. if a door banged, aunt sally would jump and go “ouch!”; if anything fell, same deal—“ouch!”; and if someone dared touch her when she wasn’t peeping, she’d do the same. she couldn’t just be cool ‘cause she was sure something was lurking behind her every second—so she’d spin around all sudden, going “ouch,” and before she even got two-thirds of the way around she’d spin back and drop another “ouch;” and she was so shook she couldn’t even crash at night, but she still wouldn’t bunk down. so the setup was working mad well, tom declared; he said he’d never peeped something work more on point. he said it proved it was done right.

then tom goes, "now for the grand bulge!" so the next morning at the very crack of dawn we prepped another letter, wondering what our next move should be, ‘cause we heard them at supper saying they were gonna station a nay nay on watch at both doors all night. tom bounced down the lightning-rod to scope it out; and the nay nay at the back door was catching z’s, so he jacked it by the back of his neck and bounced back up. this letter said:

don’t betray me, i wish to be your friend. there’s a desperate gang of cutthroats from over in the indian territory set to snatch your runaway nay nay tonight, and they’ve been flexin’ scares to keep you locked in the house so you won’t hassle them. i’m part of the gang, but i’ve caught the religion bug and wanna bail and live honest, so i’m gonna rat out the helish scheme. they’ll sneak down from the north, along the fence, at the stroke of midnight with a bogus key and bust into the nay nay’s cabin to grab him. i’m supposed to bounce off and toot a tin horn if i peep any danger; but instead, i’ll ba like a sheep as soon as they roll in and keep it on mute; then, while they’re busy unchaining him, you roll in, lock ‘em up, and handle them when you’re ready. just do exactly as i say—if you deviate, they’ll catch on and throw some serious whoop-jamboreehoo. i don’t need no reward, just knowing i did the righteous thing.

unknown friend