chapter xxxv.

we still had like an hour till breakfast, so we bounced into the woods; cuz tom was like, "we gotta have just enough light to scope out our dig, and a full-blown lantern is way too extra and might get us into hot water." what we needed was a load of those dodgy little chunks called fox-fire that give off a soft glow in the dark. so we scooped up an armful, stashed it in the weeds, and chilled for a sec, and then tom goes, kinda annoyed:

"blame it, this whole setup is mad extra and awkward—making our escape plan super sus and way too hard to pull together. there’s literally no watchman to get drugged—seriously, there should be one! not even a dog to knock out with a sleeping potion. plus, jim’s chained by one leg, with a ten-foot chain to his bed—yo, all you gotta do is lift up that bedstead and slide the chain off. and uncle silas? dude trusts everyone, sends the key off to that punkin-headed nay nay, and don’t even bother posting anyone to watch him. jim coulda bounced out of that window ages ago, but then traveling with a ten-foot chain on your leg is a major vibe kill. damn, huck, it’s the stupidest setup i ever seen. you gotta come up with your own obstacles sometimes. well, we gotta work with what we got. anywho, there’s mad honor in bustin’ someone out through a bunch of difficulties and dangers—when none of those challenges are even handed to you, and you have to invent ’em yourself. now, check this: when it comes down to the facts, a lantern is just too risky. like, we could even roll with a torchlight procession if we felt like it. oh, and while i’m at it, we gotta scout for something to rig up a saw at the first chance we get."

"what do we need a saw for?"

"what do we need it for? ain’t we supposed to cut jim’s bed leg off to free his chain?"

"yo, but you just said anyone could lift the bed and slide the chain off."

"that’s so you, huck finn. you always come up with these kiddie-level ideas. seriously, have you not peeped any books—baron trenck, casanova, benvenuto chelleeny, henri iv., or any of those epic heroes? who even heard of bustin’ a prisoner out in such a basic way? nah, the real legends go off by sawing the bed leg in half, leavin’ it like that, gulping down all the sawdust so no one can peep what went down, and then slapping some dirt and grease around the cut so even the sharpest seneskal can’t tell it was ever sawed—thinking the bed leg’s solid. then, on the night you’re ready, you give that leg a savage kick, and boom—the bed drops; you slip off your chain, and there you are. all that’s left is to hitch a rope ladder to the battlements, slide down like it’s nothing, maybe even break your leg in the moat—'cause, no cap, that rope ladder is like nineteen feet too short—and then your horses and trusty vassles scoop you up, chuck you on a saddle, and you’re out to your native langudoc, navarre, or wherever. it’s mad extra, huck. i’d kill for this cabin to have a moat. if we get time on the escape night, we’ll dig one."

i ask, "but what’s the point of a moat when we’re gonna snake him out from under the cabin?"

but he totally zoned me out—forgot i even existed. he was just sittin’ there, chin in his hand, deep in thought. after a minute, he lets out a heavy sigh, shakes his head, then sighs again and goes, "nah, it wouldn’t work—there’s just no real need for it."

"for what?" i ask.

"for, like, sawing jim’s leg off," he says.

"lmfao, why would we even need to saw his leg off?" i snap.

"well, some of the top dogs have done it. they couldn’t unchain him any other way, so they just cut off their hand and shoved. and a leg would be even crazier. but we gotta drop that idea; there’s just no need here; plus, jim’s a nay nay and wouldn’t even get the reasons behind it or the fact that it’s a europe thing—so we’ll pass on that. but yo, one thing—he can have a rope ladder; we can rip up our sheets and stitch him one up real quick. and we can even slide it to him in a pie; that’s practically the move. and i’ve had worse pies."

i be like, "yo, tom sawyer, how you even spoutin’ that stuff? jim don’t even need a rope ladder."

"he does, man. real talk, you gotta admit—you don’t know squat about it. every prisoner needs a rope ladder; it’s like a must-have."

"so, what’s he gonna do with it anyway?"

"do with it? he can just stash it in his bed, right?" – that’s what everyone does, and he’s gotta, too. huck, you never wanna do anything regular; you’re always tryna kick off something fresh. suppose he ends up not usin’ it? it’d just be there in his bed as a backup after he bounces—don’t you reckon they’d want backups? of course they would. and you wouldn’t just leave ’em? that’d be a crazy mess, right? i swear, i’ve never heard of such a thing.

"well, if it’s in the rules and he’s gotta have it, alright, let him have it; cuz i’m not about breakin’ the regs. but there’s one thing, tom sawyer—if we end up tearin’ up our sheets to make jim a rope ladder, we’re gonna get roasted by aunt sally, no doubt."

tom goes, "oh, shucks, huck finn, if i were as clueless as you, i’d just zip it—that’s exactly what i’d do. who even heard of a state prisoner bustin’ out with a hickory-bark ladder? it’s straight-up ridiculous."

i reply, "alright, tom, do your thing; but lemme borrow one of those sheets off the clothesline."

he’s down with that, and then his brain sparks another idea, and he says, "borrow a shirt, too."

"yo, why do we need a shirt, tom?" i ask.

"it’s for jim to keep a journal on."

i fire back, "journal your granny—jim can’t write, dude."

"well, suppose he can’t write—he can at least scribble on the shirt, right? especially if we rig him a pen out of an old pewter spoon or some piece of an old iron barrel hoop."

"tom, we could just pluck a feather off a goose and whip him up a dope pen, and faster too."

"prisoners don’t have geese runnin’ around the donjon-keep to snag pens from, you muggins. they always make their pens outta the toughest, most stubborn piece of old brass candlestick they can get their mitts on; and it takes ’em weeks and weeks to file it down—rubbin’ it on the wall and all that. they wouldn’t even bother with a goose quill if they had one. it just ain’t the norm."

"so, what we gonna use for ink then?"

"plenty make it outta iron rust and tears; but that’s the basic stuff. the real legends use their own blood. jim can totally do that; and whenever he wants to drop a sneaky message ‘bout where he’s held up, he can scribble it on the bottom of a tin plate with a fork and chuck it out the window. the iron mask always did that, and it’s a damn good move."

"jim ain’t got no tin plates—they feed him in a pan."

"that’s cool; we can snag some for him."

"but nobody’s gonna be able to read his plates."

"that don’t even matter, huck finn. all he’s gotta do is scribble on the plate and toss it out. you don’t even need to read it—half the time, you can’t figure out a prisoner’s scribbles on a tin plate or anywhere else."

"so, what’s the point in wastin’ plates?"

"frankly, it ain’t even the prisoner’s plates."

"but they’re somebody’s plates, right?"

"well, maybe they are? what does the prisoner care whose they are—"

and he cut off 'cause we heard the breakfast horn blastin’. so we bounced back to the house.

later that mornin’, i swiped a sheet and a white shirt off the clothesline; i even grabbed an old sack to stash ’em in, then we slid down to scoop up the fox-fire and tossed that in too. i called it borrowing, ’cause that’s what pap always said; but tom was like, "nah, that ain’t borrowin’—that's straight-up stealin’." he said we were representin’ prisoners, and prisoners don’t give a damn how they snag what they need—nobody blames ‘em. it ain’t no crime for a prisoner to jack what he needs to bust out; it’s his right. so as long as we were reppin’ a prisoner, we had the perfect right to steal anything on this spot we didn’t even use that much, just to get outta prison. he said if we weren’t prisoners, it’d be a totally different vibe, and only a total jerk would steal when they weren’t locked down. so we decided we’d jack everything that came in clutch. still, tom made a huge fuss one day when i swiped a watermelon from the nay nay-patch and munched on it; he made me bounce over and drop a dime to the nay nays without even sayin’ what it was for. tom said his point was that we could steal whatever we needed. i was like, "dude, i needed that watermelon." but he clapped back, "nah, you don’t need it for the breakout;" and that’s where the beef was. he said if i wanted it to hide a knife and smuggle it to jim so he could off the seneskal, then it’d be cool. so i let it slide, ’cause i couldn’t vibe with all that gold-leaf extra every time i tried to cop a watermelon while representin’ a prisoner.

so, as i was sayin’, we waited that mornin’ till everyone was deep in their own biz and the yard was ghosted; then tom lugged the sack into the lean-to while i posted up on lookout. not long after, he bounced out, and we crashed on the woodpile to chop it up. he goes:

"everything’s all good now besides the tools; and that’s an easy fix."

"tools?" i ask.

"yeah."

"tools for what?"

"to dig with, duh. we ain’t about to gnaw him out, are we?"

"ain't those busted old picks and junk in there enough to dig a nay nay out with?" i say.

tom shoots me a look, all pity-laced, and goes, "huck finn, you ever heard of a prisoner havin’ picks, shovels, and all the modern gear in his stash to bust out? now, i gotta ask—if you got any sense at all, what kinda flex would that give him as a hero? like, they might as well just hand him the key and be done. picks and shovels—they wouldn’t even be given to a king."

"well, then, if we ain’t down with picks and shovels, what we need then?" i ask.

"a couple of case-knives," tom replies.

"for diggin’ out the foundation under that cabin?" i ask.

"yeah," he nods.

"damn, that’s stupid, tom."

"it don’t matter how extra it sounds—it’s the real move, the standard play. there’s no other way i know of; i’ve read all the books on this. they always bust out usin’ a case-knife—not through loose dirt, mind you, but straight through solid rock. and it takes forever, like weeks on end. check out that prisoner in the bottom dungeon of castle deef down at marseilles harbor, who dug himself out that way; how long do you reckon he was at it?"

"i dunno," i shrug.

"well, guess then."

"maybe like a month and a half?" i venture.

"nah, bro, thirty-seven years—and he ended up in china. that’s the move. i wish the bottom of this fortress was solid rock."

"jim don’t even know anyone in china," i joke.

"what’s that got to do with it? neither did that guy, man. but you’re always off on a tangent—stick to the point!"

"alright—I don’t care where he ends up, as long as he busts out; and jim don’t either, i guess. but here’s the kicker—jim’s too old to be busted out with just a case-knife. he won’t last."

"nah, he’ll hold up fine. you don’t seriously think it’ll take thirty-seven years to hack through a dirt foundation, do you?"

"how long you reckon it’ll take, tom?" i ask.

"well, we can’t risk takin’ forever 'cause uncle silas might catch wind from down in new orleans. he’ll hear jim ain’t from there, and then his next move will be to shout jim out or somethin’. so we can’t stall on the dig too long. by all means, i reckon we should have a couple of years, but nah—it’s too risky. so, here’s what i’m thinkin’: we go all in, dig as fast as possible; then we can act like we spent thirty-seven years on it, and when the first alarm sounds, we swoop him up and bounce, pronto. that’s the move, no cap."

"yo, there’s sense in that," i say. "playin’ it up don’t cost a thing; actin’ like we were at it for a hundred and fifty years wouldn’t even be a problem, not after i got my hand in. so imma mosey along now and snag a couple case-knives."

"snag three," he shoots back, "we need one to hack into a saw."

"tom, if it ain’t too extra and sacrilegious to even say it, there’s an old rusty saw-blade over yonder, stuck under the weatherboarding behind the smoke-house."

he looked all weary and bummed, and goes, "ain’t no point tryna school you, huck. just run along and snag the knives—three of ‘em." so i did.