chapter xxxiii.

so i started for town in the wagon, and halfway through, i peeped another wagon rolling up—and sure enough, it was tom sawyer—so i pulled over and waited for him to bounce up beside me. i shouted, “hold up!” and he stopped right alongside, his mouth gaping wide like a trunk, frozen in that epic moment; he gulped two or three times like someone with a parched throat, and then he goes:

  “i ain’t ever done you any harm. you know that. so, whatchu wanna come back and snub me for?”

i replied, “i ain’t bounced—I haven’t been gone.”

when he caught my voice, it perked him up a bit, but he still wasn’t entirely satisfied, and he goes:

don’t you be playing no games on me, cuz i wouldn’t ever do that to you. real talk, honest injun, you ain’t some ghost or what?
real talk, i ain’t.

well—i mean, that should settle the tea, but i’m still hella shook. yo, have you ever gotten murdered or somethin’?
nah fam, i’ve never been murdered—i totally played it off. slide on in and test me if you ain’t buying what i’m saying.

so boom, he did his thing and was mad hyped to see me again—like, he lost his mind in a good way. he was tryna scoop up all the deets right away ‘cause it was a grand adventure, mysterious as heck, hittin’ him right in the feels. but i was like, “chill on it till later,” told his driver to park it, and we bounced a bit while i spilled the tea on my mess. then i asked, “yo, what’s the move?” and he was like, “let him ride his vibe for a minute, don’t bug him.” after flexin’ his brain for a sec, he dropped:

“it’s all right; i got the plan. grab my trunk, toss it in your wagon like it’s all yours; then cruise back slow-mo so you hit the crib at just the right time; meanwhile, i’ll dip toward town, restart my grind, and slide in like fifteen to thirty minutes after you—no need to flex who i am right off.”

i was like, “aight, but hold up—there’s one more thing that only i know. peep this: there’s a nay nay here i’m about to liberate from slavery, and his name is jim—old miss watson’s jim.”

“what! like, jim is—”
he paused and started studying me. i hit him with, “i know what you’re gonna say—you’re gonna call that dirty, low-down business; but what if it is? i’m low as it gets; i’m dead set on stealing him, so keep it on the down-low, aight?”

his eyes lit up, and he goes, “bet, i’ll help you snatch him!”

yo, i legit dropped everything like i’d been shot—this was the most jaw-dropping speech i’d ever heard, and ngl, tom sawyer totally took a nosedive in my book. i mean, tom sawyer, a nay nay stealer!

“oh, fr fr!” i say, “you’re straight clownin’, right?”
“i ain’t playin’,” he shoots back.
“well, then,” i say, “joking or not, if you catch any chatter about a runaway nay nay, remember—you know nothing about him, and neither do i.”

so we loaded up the trunk into my ride, then he bounced off in his whip while i cruised mine. of course, i spaced on the whole slow-roll vibe ‘cause i was hyped and deep in thought; so i rolled home way too quick for a trip. our old gent was posted at the door, dropping his lines:

“why, this is wonderful! who’d have even vibed that that old mare could flex like that? i wish we’d synced her up right. and she ain’t even broke a sweat—not one hair. it’s pure magic. i wouldn’t drop a hundred bucks on that horse now—no cap; and yet i sold her for fifteen back in the day, thinking that was all she was worth.”

that was his whole vibe. he was the chillest, purest old soul i’d ever seen. and ngl, it didn’t shock me ‘cause he wasn’t just a farmer—dude was also a preacher, rockin’ a one-horse log church way out back on the plantation, built with his own hustle for both church and school, and he never charged a dime for his preaching. lots of farmer-preachers down south were on that same grind.

in about half an hour, tom’s wagon pulled up by the front stile, and aunt sally peeped it through the window from about fifty yards out, and goes:

“whoa, peep someone comin’! i wonder who it is? i’m thinkin’ it’s a stranger. jimmy—” (one of the kiddos) “sprint and holler at lize to set another plate for dinner.”

everyone jetted for the front door ‘cause, obviously, strangers don’t roll through every year—they set off that once-a-year hype. tom was already over the stile, strutting into the house; his wagon spun off toward the village, and we all huddled at the door. tom rocked his fly threads with his audience—always peak for tom sawyer. he wasn’t some timid kid creeping up like a basic sheep; nah, he came in bold and boss-like, like a ram owning the yard. when he landed in front of us, he lifted his hat all suave and delicate—as if it were a collector’s lid with butterflies chillin’ inside that he didn’t wanna disturb—and said:

“mr. archibald nichols, i presume?”

“nah, kid,” the old gent replies, “sorry to break it to you but your driver played you; nichols’s spot is like three miles further. come on in, come on in.”

tom glanced back and deadpanned, “too late—he dipped out of sight.”

“yep, he’s gone, my son, and you gotta come in and chow with us; then we’ll hitch up and roll you over to nichols’s.”

“oh, i ain’t tryna hassle y’all; i’m cool—i’ll walk, no sweat on the distance.”

“nah fam, we ain’t about lettin’ you walk—that ain’t southern hospitality. come on in.”

“for real,” says aunt sally, “it ain’t no trouble at all. you gotta stay. it’s a long, dusty three miles, and we can’t let you trek. plus, i already hollered for another plate when i saw you comin’, so don’t disappoint us. slide right in and chill.”

so tom was all grateful and handsome, and let himself be swayed, strollin’ in; and once inside, he goes, “i’m a stranger from hicksville, ohio, call me william thompson,” and he even dropped another bow.

then he kept on spinnin’ wild tales about hicksville and all the fictional peeps he could dream up, while i got a bit nervous, wonderin’ how this was gonna pull me outta my scrape; and eventually, mid-story, he leaned over and planted a kiss right on aunt sally’s mouth before chillin’ back in his chair like it was all normal. aunt sally jumped up, wiped it off with the back of her hand, and fired off,

“you cheeky puppy!”

tom looked low-key hurt and goes, “i’m shook at you, ma’am.”

aunt sally snapped, “yo, what do you think i am? i’ve got mad thoughts on that—like, what even is it meanin’ to kiss me?”

tom, all humble, said, “i wasn’t tryna be sus, ma’am; i meant no harm. i just thought you’d be down with it.”

“oh, you total dumbass!” she retorted, snatching up the spinning stick, barely holding back from smackin’ him. “what made you think i’d be down for that?”

tom stammered, “i dunno—i mean, they straight-up told me you would.”

she snapped, “they told you i’d be down? whoever fed you that is totally twisted. i’ve never caught wind of any of that. who are these clowns?”

“man, everybody—they all hyped it up, ma’am.”

she nearly lost it, eyes flashing and fingers twitchin’ like she was fixin’ to scratch him, then said, “who’s ‘everybody’? spit out their names, or i’mma call you a complete idiot.”

tom stood up, lookin’ all distressed, fumbling his hat, and goes, “i’m sorry, i wasn’t expecting this. they told me to do it—every single one said, ‘kiss her,’ and swore she’d be into it. but i’m sorry, ma’am, i won’t do it again—honest.”

aunt sally fired back, “you ain’t gonna, right? well, i’m countin’ on it!”

tom replied, “for real, i’m as honest as they come; i won’t ever do it again—unless you literally ask me.”

“till i ask you? man, i’ve never seen anything like it in my whole life! i bet you’ll be the oldest, dumbest dinosaur before i ever even think of askin’ you—or any like you.”

tom then went, “yo, i legit am shook. i can’t figure it out—everyone said you’d be down, so i assumed you would. but—” he paused, scanning the room like he was huntin’ for a friendly nod, then shot a look at the old gent and asked, “didn’t you reckon she’d be down for my kiss, sir?”

the old gent replied, “nah, i mean, i don’t think so.”

then he glanced over at me and goes, “tom, did you not think aunt sally would be like, arms wide open, hollerin’ ‘sid sawyer—’”

“my goodness!” aunt sally burst in, jumpin’ at him, “you impudent little rascal, pullin’ a fast one on someone so—” she started to hug him, but he dodged and said, “no, not until you straight up ask me first.”

she didn’t waste a minute—she asked him, then hugged and kissed him over and over, before handing him off to the old gent, who took over the convo. once things calmed down, she said,

“oh wow, i ain’t seen a surprise that wild. we weren’t even expecting you at all, just tom—sis only hollered about him comin’.”

“it’s ‘cause it was only meant for tom to roll through,” he explained, “but i begged and begged, and at the last sec, she let me tag along too; so while we were cruisin’ down the river, me and tom figured it’d be epic if tom popped in first and then i dropped by later, playin’ the stranger. but, aunt sally, gotta say—that was a major misfire. this joint ain’t doin’ it for random visitors.”

aunt sally snapped back, “nah—not you impudent whelps, sid. you oughta get your mouth punched; i haven’t been this put off since who-knows-when. but honestly, i ain’t even trippin’—i’d take a thousand more of your jokes just to have you here. seriously, that performance? i was mad shook with astonishment when you smacked me.”

we grubbed in that huge open passage between the house and the kitchen; the table was stacked enough to feed like seven squads—and everything was piping hot, not that janky, tough meat that’s been chillin’ in some dank cellar all night and tastes like old cold leftovers the next morning. uncle silas dropped a long bless over it, and it was well worth it; plus, it didn’t lose its heat like those lame interruptions i see all the time.

there was mad chatter all afternoon, and tom and i were on high alert the whole time; but no cap, they never dropped any tea about a runaway nay nay, and we were hella scared to even mention it.

but come dinner time, at night, one of the little kids piped up, “pa, can tom, sid, and me dip to the show?”

the old man replied, “nah, i reckon there ain’t gonna be one; and even if there was, y’all couldn’t go, ‘cause that runaway nay nay spilled all the tea about that scandalous show to burton and me, and burton said he’d tell everyone; so i figure they already booted those owdacious slackers out of town.”

so that was that! i couldn’t help it—tom and i were crashin’ in the same room, same bed; so, mad tired, we wished each other goodnight and crashed right after dinner, then bounced out the window, slid down the lightning-rod, and raced for town—‘cause i knew no one was gonna drop a hint to the king and the duke, and if i didn’t hustle and clue ‘em in, they’d be in deep trouble for sure.

on the road, tom dropped all the deets about how folks reckoned i got murdered, how pap straight-up vanished and never came back, and the wild stir when jim dipped; i dished out everything ‘bout our royal nonesuch gang and the epic raft voyage i could recall; and as we cruised into town, rollin’ through the center—like, it was around half-past eight—a wild mob with torches came blazing in, yelling, banging tin pans, and honkin’ horns; so we dipped aside to let ‘em roll by. as they passed, i peeped that the king and the duke were posted on a rail—i knew it was them, even though they were covered in tar and feathers and looked nothing human, just like a couple of monstrous, overgrown soldier-plumes. man, it made me straight-up sick; i felt mad sorry for those pitiful clowns, like i couldn’t ever be hard on ‘em again. it was a straight-up tragedy—humans can be hella cruel to each other.

we were too late—couldn’t do any good. we hit up some stragglers, and they said everyone at the show played it all innocent, kept low-key until the poor old king was in the middle of his show on stage; then someone gave a signal, and the joint flipped, chasing them down.

so we bounced back home, and i wasn’t as cocky as before—I felt kinda ornery, humble, and even a bit to blame (even though i did nothing). but that’s just how it goes; whether you do right or wrong, your conscience don’t check itself, and it just does its thing anyhow. if i had a yeller dog with as much sense as a person’s conscience, i’d pison that mutt. it takes up more room than everything else inside a person but ain’t worth squat. tom sawyer was on that same vibe.