chapter xiii.

so, i took a sec to catch my breath and nearly fainted. trapped on a wreck with a squad like that? legit, no chill! but there was zero time for sappy feels. we had to track down that boat, like, asap—had to bag it for ourselves. so we shook and shimmied our way down the starboard side, which was mad slow—it felt like it took a whole week to crawl to the stern. no sign of a boat anywhere. jim was already like, "i can’t go any further," so shook he barely had any juice left. but i was like, "yo, if we get stuck on this wreck, it’s game over for sure." so we kept prowling.

we made a run for the stern of the texas and found it, then scrambled forward on the skylight, clinging from shutter to shutter ‘cause its edge was literally in the water. when we got hella close to the cross-hall door, boom—the skiff was there, for real! i could barely peep her, and man, i was mad grateful. in a blink, i was about to hop aboard, but then the door swung open. one dude popped his head out just a couple feet from me, and i legit thought i was done for; but he quickly jerked it back in and goes, "throw that damn lantern outta sight, bill!"

he chucked a bag of some random loot into the boat, then jumped in and chilled. that was packard. then bill bounced out and hopped in. packard, all lowkey, goes, "all set—let’s dip!"

i was barely clinging to the shutters, totally knackered. but bill goes, "hold up—did you already off him?"

"nah. you didn’t?"

"nah. so he still’s got his cut of the cash."

"alright, then, roll out; no point in bailing and leaving the loot."

"yo, won’t he get suspicious about what we’re up to?"

"maybe he won’t. but we gotta snag it anyway. come on."

so they bounced out and then slid in. the door slammed shut ‘cause it was on the tilted side; and in a flash, i was in the boat with jim tumbling after me. i whipped out my knife, sliced the rope, and yo—we were off!

we didn’t even grab an oar, and we didn’t chat, whisper, or even catch a breath. we just glided swift af, dead silent, cruising past the paddle-box tip and the stern; then in a minute or two we were a hundred yards downstream, and the darkness totally swallowed that wreck—no trace left—and we were hella safe.

when we were like three or four hundred yards downstream, we peeped a tiny lantern spark at the texas door for a sec, and we knew straight up that those rascals had totally missed their boat and were already in as deep a jam as jim turner.

then jim took charge of the oars and we headed after our raft. for the first time, i started sweating about the crew—i guess i never peeped it before. i was lowkey thinking how savage it would be, even for murderers, to be locked in such a mess. i was like, "yo, what if i end up being a murderer myself? fr, not cool." so i laid it down for jim:

"as soon as we catch the first light, we’ll drop down like a hundred yards either below or above it—in a spot that's perfect for you and the skiff to hide—and then i’ll spin a wild yarn to rope someone in to bust that gang out of their scrape so they can catch hell when their time comes."

but that plan flopped fast; soon enough the storm came back, even worse than before. the rain poured like crazy and not a single light popped up—everyone was probably locked in bed. we cruised down the river, scanning for any glow and for our raft. after ages, the rain bailed but the clouds kept hanging and the lightning just kept whispering, until a flash revealed a dark shape floating ahead—and we were like, "let’s roll for that!"

it was our raft, and we were mega relieved to hop back on. then we peeped a light way down on the right, on shore. so i was like, "aight, i’m on it." the skiff was half loaded with swag that that gang had jacked from the wreck. we hustled it onto the raft in a messy pile, and i told jim to drift along down the river, drop a light when he’d clock about two miles, and keep it burning till i rolled in; then i grabbed my oars and pushed for that light. as i cruised closer, three or four more lights popped up on a hillside—yo, it was a whole village. i slid in above the shore glow, then eased down on my oars and floated. as i glided by, i peeped a lantern swinging on the jackstaff of a double-hull ferry-boat. i circled around looking for the watchman, lowkey wondering where he was catching z’s; eventually, i found him chillin’ on the bitts up front with his head tucked between his knees. i nudged his shoulder a couple times and then, straight up, i started crying.

he jumped up all startled-like; but when he peeped it was just me, he stretched out real good and then goes, "hello, what’s up? don’t cry, bub. what’s the trouble?"

i was like, "pap, and mam, and sis, and—" then i broke down completely.

he replied, "oh, come on now, don’t get twisted; we all gotta deal with our own mess, and things will work themselves out. what’s botherin’ you?"

"they—they—are you the watchman of the boat?"

"yes," he said, all satisfied and chill, "i’m the captain, the owner, the mate, the pilot, the watchman, and the top deck-hand; sometimes i even handle freight and passengers. i ain’t as loaded as old jim hornback, and i’m not as wild with the dough or generous to tom, dick, and harry as he is, flinging cash like confetti; but i’ve told him a million times i wouldn’t swap spots with him—‘cause a sailor’s life is the only life for me, and i’m damn not about living two miles out of town where nothing’s poppin’, no matter all his cash and perks. i always say—"

i cut in, "they’re in a mad deep jam, and—"

"who exactly?" he asks.

"i’m talkin’ 'bout pap, mam, sis, and miss hooker; and if you grabbed your ferry-boat and dipped up there—"

"up where? spill it."

"on the wreck."

"which wreck?"

"lol, there’s only one wreck."

"nah, you don’t mean the walter scott?"

"yep."

"omg, for real! what the heck are they doing there, for real?"

"yo, they didn’t get there on accident."

"bet for real they didn’t! damn, they ain’t got any shot if they don’t bounce mad quick! how in the world did they even land in that mess?"

"easy peasy. miss hooker was out visiting at booth’s landing—"

"yep, booth’s landing—go on."

"she was out there at booth’s landing, and right at dusk she bounced with her nay nay woman in the horse-ferry to crash all night at a friend’s pad—miss what-you-call-her, i can’t even remember her name—and then they lost their steering-oar, swung around, and started floating down, stern first, for like two miles, slamming onto the wreck; the ferryman, the nay nay woman, and the horses all got jacked, but miss hooker managed to snag the wreck and climb aboard. then, about an hour after dark, we rocked up in our trading-scow, and it was so dark we didn’t peep the wreck until we were literally right on top of it; so we clung on hard—but everyone got saved except bill whipple, and damn, that dude was one next-level cretur! i lowkey wished it had been me, tbh."

"my george! that's the most savage mess i ever witnessed. so, what’d y’all do next?"

"well, we hollered and hustled, but the gap was so wide no one could even hear us. so pap was like, 'someone’s gotta hit shore and snag help, no matter what.' i was the only one who could swim, so i took a mad dash for it, and miss hooker was like, 'if you don’t pull through fast, come grab my uncle and he’ll fix it up.' i hit land about a mile down, and i’ve been hustling ever since, trying to get people to step up, but they were like, 'what, in a night like this with crazy currents? that ain’t smart, man; ride the steam ferry.' now if you’re gonna—"

"by jackson, i’d be game, and seriously, i don’t know but i will; but who in the world is gonna foot the bill? you reckon your pap—"

"nah, that's cool. miss hooker straight-up told me that her uncle hornback—"

"great guns! is he really her uncle? check it: you split for that light over yonder, then turn west when you hit it, and about a quarter mile out you'll spot the tavern; tell them to shoot you over to jim hornback’s, and he’ll cover the tab. and don’t mess around, ‘cause he’s gonna need the deets. tell him i’ll get his niece safe before he even hits town. hustle up now; i’m bouncin’ around the corner to wake up my engineer."

i bolted for the light, but as soon as he turned the corner, i dipped back into my skiff, bailed it out, then hauled up shore in chill water about six hundred yards out, and squatted among some woodboats; i couldn’t crash easy until i saw the ferry-boat start rollin’ again. but yo, considering it all, i was mad comfortable for going through all that trouble for that crew—‘cause few would even try. i was lowkey wishing the widow knew what went down. i figured she’d be hella proud of me for helping these rapscallions, ‘cause rapscallions and deadbeats are exactly the kind of misfits the widow and all the good peeps vibe with most.

before long, here comes the wreck, all dim and dusky, sliding down the river! i got an icy shiver and bolted straight for it. she was mad deep, and i could tell in like a minute there wasn’t much chance anyone was still alive in that mess. i circled her and hollered a bit, but got nothing—dead silent. i felt a bit heavy-hearted about the gang, but not too deep, ‘cause if they could handle it, so could i.

then, boom, here comes the ferry-boat; so i hustled to the middle of the river on a long downstream drift. when i figured i was outta sight, i kicked back on my oars, looked back, and peeped her sniffing around the wreck for miss hooker’s leftovers—since the captain knew her uncle hornback would be on that case—and then pretty quick the ferry-boat bounced for shore, and i got in the zone, booming down the river.

it felt like forever before jim’s light popped up; and when it finally did, it looked like it was a thousand miles away. by the time i reached it, the eastern sky was gettin’ all gray; so we bounced for an island, stashed the raft, sunk the skiff, and crashed hard—sleeping like the dearly departed.