chapter vii.

“git up! what you ’bout?”

i popped my eyes open and peeped around, tryna figure out where i was. it was post-sunrise, and i’d been in deep sleep mode. pap was looming over me, lookin’ all sour and messed up too. he snarled:

“what you doin’ with this gun?”

i figured he had zero clue about what he’d been up to, so i kept it 100 and said:

“someone was tryin’ to break in, so i was layin’ low for them.”

“why didn’t you drag me out?”

“yo, i tried, but couldn’t move you – you were stuck like a frozen pixel.”

“alright, enough rabbithole talk. bounce out and scope if there’s any fish on the line for breakfast. i’ll roll by in a hot minute.”

he unlocked the door, and i dipped out to the riverbank. i peeped some broken limbs floatin’ by and bits of bark here and there – sign that the river was flexin’ its rise mode. i figured if i was in town in this june rise, i’d be living the dream; ‘cause when the river goes up, loads of cordwood and log rafts start driftin’ by – sometimes a whole squad, so all you gotta do is snag ‘em and flip them at the wharf or sawmill, no cap.

i cruised up the bank, one eye on pap and the other on what drift might roll by. outta nowhere, a slick canoe appeared – a total beaut, like thirteen or fourteen feet long, ridin’ high like some next-level duck. i bounced head-first off the bank like a frog, clothes and all, and sprinted for the canoe. i half-expected someone was chillaxin’ in it, ‘cause peeps often set up decoys like that to troll others; usually, when a dude hauled a skiff, someone would jump up to roast him. but nah, this time it was legit a drift-canoe, and i hauled it in and paddled her ashore. i was thinkin’, “pap’s gonna lose his mind when he sees this – she’s worth mad cheddar.” but when i hit the shore, pap was MIA. as i ran her into a gnarly little creek, all tangled with vines and willows, a lightbulb dropped: i’d stash her clean, and instead of buggin’ out into the woods when i dipped, i’d cruise fifty miles down the river and camp in one chill spot – no more hardcore foot trippin’.

it was hella close to the shanty, and i kept hearin’ pap’s steps comin’ up, but i hid her tight; then i scoped out a bunch of willows and peeped pap down the path, tryna snipe a bird with his gun. so he hadn’t clocked my move.

once he bounced off, i got busy riggin’ up a “trot” line. pap started throwin’ shade for bein’ hella slow, but i clapped back sayin’ i’d gone for a swim in the river – that’s why i took forever. i knew he’d peep i was soaked, then he’d start grillin’ questions. we hauled in five fat catfish off the lines and dipped back home.

after breakfast, we chilled out to crash ‘cause we were both hella beat. that’s when i started schemin’ that if i could rig something to keep pap and the widow from trailin’ me, it’d be way smarter than trustin’ pure luck to dip out before they caught my vibe – ‘cause, ngl, all kinds of crazy shit could go down. i didn’t get a brainwave for a hot minute, but then pap stirred up to chug another barrel of water and dropped this gem:

“next time some dude creeps around here, you better drag me out, ya hear? that dude ain’t here for good vibes. i’d blast him, no cap. next time you pull me out, ya hear?”

and then he crashed again; but his rant sparked the exact idea i needed. i whispered to myself, “yo, i can set this up so no one thinks about tailin’ me.”

around noon, we bounced and trekked up the bank. the river was risin’ hella fast, and driftwood was floatin’ by like it was on a slow-mo parade. before long, a chunk of a log raft – nine logs jammed real tight – showed up. we jacked the skiff and towed it ashore. dinner was served. anyone but pap would have hung around the day for extra loot; but that wasn’t pap’s hustle. nine logs was plenty for one run – he was all about flippin’ it fast and headin’ to town to score. so he locked me up, grabbed the skiff, and started towin’ the raft around half-past three. i was pretty sure he wasn’t comin’ back that night. i waited until i was sure he’d dipped good, then whipped out my saw and went back at that log like a boss. before he hit the other side of the river, i was already ghost – him and his raft were just a smudge drifting down the stream.

i copped the sack of corn meal and hustled it to the sneak spot where i stashed the canoe, shoved aside some vines and branches, and tucked it in; then i did the same with the bacon side; then the whisky jug. i scooped up all the coffee and sugar there was, all the ammo, the wadding, the bucket and gourd, a dipper, a tin cup, my old saw, two blankets, the skillet, and the coffee pot. i snagged fish-lines, matches, and every little trinket worth a dime. i cleaned out the whole spot. i wanted an axe too, but nada – only the one chillin’ at the woodpile, and i was well aware why i was gonna leave that be. i pulled out the gun, and now i was set.

i had scraped the ground hard, crawlin’ out of that hole and draggin’ out a bunch of stuff. so i fixed up the exterior by scatterin’ dust all over to cover the smooth patches and sawdust trails. then i jammed that piece of log back in place, propped it up with two rocks underneath and one against it to keep it from bouncin’ – it was kinda tilted and didn’t quite touch the earth. if you were standin’ like four or five feet away and didn’t know it was sawed, you’d never peep it; plus, this was the back of the cabin, a spot no one would normally mess around in.

the grass was deep enough that no tracks led to the canoe, so i was all stealth mode. i circled around to scope my work. i parked on the bank, peeped the river – everything was solid. then i grabbed the gun and bounced up into the woods, huntin’ for some birds, when i spotted a wild pig – those hogs just go savage in these parts once they dip outta the prairie farms. i popped this dude with a shot and hauled him into camp.

i snatched up the axe and smashed the door like it was a noob in a mosh pit. i went to town on it – hackin’ and choppin’ hard. i dragged the pig back nearly to the table, hacked into his throat with the axe, and laid him on the hard-packed ground to bleed out; i say “ground” ‘cause it was legit ground – no boards, just raw dirt. next up, i grabbed an old sack, stuffed it with as many big rocks as i could haul, and started draggin’ it from the pig, running it all the way to the door, through the woods, down to the river – dumped it in, and it sank outta sight. you’d totally peep signs of somethin’ dragged on the ground. i was lowkey wishin’ tom sawyer was around; i knew he’d be all over this kinda drama, adding his fancy flair – no one could make a chaotic masterpiece like tom sawyer.

lastly, i tugged out some of my hair, slathered the axe with blood, stuck it on the backside, and lobbed it in the corner. then i hoisted the pig up, pressed him against my chest with my jacket (to keep the drips in check) till i got to a solid spot below the house, and then dumped him into the river. then a new idea hit me. so i scooped up the bag of meal and my old saw from the canoe, hauled ‘em to the house. i took the sack to its old spot and ripped a hole in the bottom with the saw – ‘cause, real talk, there weren’t any fancy knives or forks ‘round here – pap always did his cookin’ with that old clasp-knife. after that, i lugged the sack about a hundred yards across the grass and through the willows east of the house, to a shallow lake that stretched like five miles wide and was packed with rushes – and ducks too in season, no cap. there was a slough, or creek, trickling out on the other side that ran miles away – i ain’t even know where, but it wasn’t connectin’ to the river. the meal leaked out, creatin’ a tiny trail all the way to the lake. i even dropped pap’s whetstone there to make it look like a total accident. then i tied up the rip in the sack with some string so it wouldn’t keep leakin’, and scooped it and my saw back to the canoe.

it was gettin’ dark by then; so i floated the canoe down the river under some willows hangin’ over the bank, and hung tight for the moon to pop up. i latched onto a willow, grabbed a bite to eat, and eventually crashed in the canoe to puff on my pipe and craft my next plan. i told myself, “they’ll track that sack of rocks right to the shore, then drag the river for me. and they’ll tail that meal trail all the way to the lake and probe down the creek to hunt down the robbers who offed me and swiped my goods. they’re never gonna search the river for nothin’ but my dead body. soon enough, they’ll get bored and bounce, leavin’ me in peace.” aight; i can dip wherever i want. jackson’s island is totally clutch for me; i know that spot inside out, and no one ever shows up there. plus, i can paddle into town at night and ghost around snagging whatever i fancy. jackson’s island is the move.

i was mad tired, and next thing i know, i’m out cold. when i finally woke up, for a split second i had zero clue where i was. i sat up, peeped around all jittery, then it all clicked. the river stretched for miles – the moon was blazin’ so bright that i could count the drift logs slippin’ by in a slick row, all dark and silent, hundreds of yards offshore. everything was dead quiet, like the late hours – and it smelled hella eerie. you feel me?

i stretched out, about to unhook and bounce when i heard a noise echoin’ over the water. i listened close. soon enough, i peeped what it was. it was that low-key regular sound of oars doin’ their thing in a still night’s rowlocks. i peered out through the droppin’ willow branches, and there it was – a skiff driftin’ on the water, comin’ in. couldn’t tell how many peeps were aboard. it kept comin’, and when it was rollin’ right past me, i saw there was only one dude in it. i was like, “yo, maybe it’s pap, though i wasn’t expectin’ him.” he dropped below my line with the current, and soon after, he cruised up shore in the chill water – so close that i could literally stretch out my hand, grab the gun, and feel him. yup, it was pap, and surprisingly sober given the smooth way he handled his oars.

i didn’t waste a hot sec. the next minute, i was sped down the stream, low-key quick but totally chill under the bank’s shade. i put in two and a half miles, then veered a quarter mile or more toward the river’s middle ‘cause soon enough, i’d be runnin’ by the ferry landing where peeps might spot me and call out. i dipped into a clump of driftwood, lay low in the bottom of the canoe, and let it float.

i kicked back, enjoyed a solid chill session and a long pipe smoke, starin’ up at the clear sky – not a single cloud. the sky looked mega deep when you’re starin’ up in that moonlight; i swear, it was a vibe i’d never seen before. and damn, the distance you can hear water sounds on nights like that! i caught voices at the ferry landing. i heard every single word – one dude was like, “yo, these are long days and short nights, bro.” another was like, “nah, this ain’t one of those short ones,” and then they cracked up, rehashin’ the joke, then woke up another homie and filled him in, though he wasn’t laughing – he snapped and was all, “let it be, man.” the first dude claimed he’d tell his old lady ‘cause she’d totally dig it; but the other was like, “that ain’t nothin’ compared to some of the wild stuff i’ve seen.” i even heard someone mumble it was nearly three, hopin’ daylight wouldn’t be a week away. after that, the talk drifted off, words gettin’ fuzzier, but i still caught the low mumbles and the occasional laugh from far out.

i was now chillin’ below the ferry. i peeped it up, and there it was – jackson’s island, about two and a half miles downstream, packed with heavy timber, risin’ out of the river like a stealth steamboat without any bling lights. there wasn’t even a sign of the bar at the head – that whole area was submerged now.

i hit the island fast – shot past the head at a ripping pace ‘cause the current was mad swift, then slid into some dead water and landed on the side toward the illinois shore. i steered the canoe into a deep dent in the bank i knew of; had to swerve through some willows to get in; and once i secured it, no soul could peep the canoe from the outside.

i climbed up and set myself on a log at the head of the island, starin’ out at the vast river, the black driftwood, and the town three miles away, where three or four lights were twinklin’. then, outta nowhere, this massive lumber-raft appeared about a mile upstream, floatin’ with a lantern in its center. i watched it creep down slow, and when it was right beside me, i caught a dude say, “stern oars, there! heave her head to stabboard!” loud and clear, like he was right next to me.

the sky started gettin’ that little gray tint; so i slid into the woods and crashed for a nap before breakfast.