chapter xxxvi.

as soon as we peeped that everybody was knocked out that night, we slid down the lightning rod, locked ourselves in the lean-to, whipped out our stash of fox-fire, and got to hustlin’. we cleared out a path, like four or five feet wide along the center of the bottom log. tom said he was posted right behind jim’s bed, and we’d dig underneath it so sneaky that nobody in the cabin would ever peep a hole there—cuz jim’s counter-pin was hangin’ nearly to the ground, and you’d have to jack it up just to see any gap. so we hacked away with our case-knives until nearly midnight; and then we were straight-up dog-tired, our hands all blistered, yet it looked like we hadn’t done squat. finally, i go, "yo, this ain’t a thirty-seven year hustle; this is a thirty-eight year grind, tom sawyer."

he didn’t say a word—just sighed, and soon stopped diggin’. then, after a minute of dead silence that screamed he was deep in thought, he finally says, "it ain’t no use, huck—it ain’t gonna work. if we were legit prisoners, it’d be chill, 'cause then we’d have unlimited time and no rush; we’d only get a few minutes each day while they switched watches, so our hands wouldn’t get wrecked, and we could pace it out all year, do it proper. but we can’t play it slow—we gotta rush, cuz we ain’t got time to waste. if we put in another night like this, we’d have to stop for a whole week to let our hands heal—we wouldn’t even be able to touch a case-knife till then."

"so, what we gonna do, tom?" i ask.

"i’ll break it down for you. it ain’t exactly righteous, and i wouldn’t want it get out, but there’s only one play: we gotta dig him out with the picks and act like they’re just case-knives."

“now you’re talking, fam!” i be like; “yo, your brain stays hella level all the time, tom sawyer,” i spill the tea. “picks are the ultimate flex, moral or nah; and ngl, i don’t give two claps about that moral vibe. when i’m bout to snatch a nay nay, or jack a watermelon, or swipe a sunday-school book, i ain’t tripping about the deets—if it gets done, it’s done. what i need is my nay nay; or my watermelon; or that sunday-school book; and if a pick’s the dopest tool in the kit, that’s the tool i’m using to dig that nay nay, watermelon, or book out—i don’t care one bit what the fuzz thinks, no cap.”

“well,” he goes, “there’s legit reason to flex with picks and keep it on the low in a sitch like this; if it wasn’t, i wouldn’t vibe with it, nor would i stand around watching the rules get wrecked—’cause facts are facts: right is right and wrong is wrong, and you seriously shouldn’t go doing wrong when you know better. it might fly for you to dig jim out with a pick on the down-low, ‘cause you’re clueless; but not for me, i’m woke. hook me up with a case-knife.”

he had his own, but i slid him mine. he yeeted it down and goes:

“hook me up a case-knife.”

i was lowkey stunned, but then my brain clicked. i rummaged around the ancient tool stash, snagged a pickaxe, handed it over, and he got right to work without dropping another word.

he was, like, extra extra in that vibe—full of his own principles.

so then i grabbed a shovel, and we went full grind mode, picking and shoveling, twisting and turning, making the dirt fly. we smashed it for like half an hour, which was our max stamina; but yo, we ended up with one fat-ass hole. when i bounced upstairs, i peeped out the window and saw tom doing his best with the lightning rod, but the dude couldn’t even handle it—his hands were hurting way too much. finally, he goes:

“it ain’t workin’, bruh—it can’t be done. what u think i should do next? you got any better hacks?”

“yeah,” i reply, “but i feel it’s kinda sus. just bounce upstairs and play it off like it’s a legit lightning rod.”

so he went and did it.

the next day, tom jacked a pewter spoon and a brass candlestick from the crib to craft some pens for jim, and snagged six tallow candles; meanwhile, i hung around the nay nay cabins and waited for my chance, then swiped three tin plates. tom was like “that ain’t enough,” but i clapped back, “nobody’s gonna peep the plates that jim chucked ‘cause they’d fall right into the dog-fennel and jimpson weeds under the window gap—then we can scoop ‘em up and he can reuse ‘em.” so tom was vibing. then he drops:

“now, the tea to spill is, how we slide these goodies over to jim.”

“just shove ‘em through the gap,” i say, “when we’re done.”

he gives off major eye-roll vibes and snaps something about nobody ever hearing of such a dumb idea, and then he goes back to brainstorming. after a minute, he says he’s decoded a couple of hacks, but there’s no need to lock one in yet—apparently we gotta get jim posted first.

that night, we slid down the lightning rod vibe just past ten, grabbed one candle, and scoped the window gap while listening to jim snorin’. we tossed the candle in, and guess what—it didn’t even glitch him. then we stormed in with our pick and shovel, and in like two and a half hours, boom—the mission was complete. we snuck under jim’s bed and into his crib, scrambled around, found the candle and lit it up, then hung around over jim for a hot minute, confirming he was still on his A-game and healthy. after that, we woke him up all smooth and gradual. dude was so hyped to see us he legit cried; he called us honey and every cute nickname in the book, and practically begged us to hunt down a cold chisel to slice the chain off his leg ASAP so he could dip without delay. but tom schooled him real quick on how sus that move was, sat him down, and broke down our master plan—how we could flip the script in a sec if any alarm went off; and told him not to sweat it, ‘cause we’d make sure he got out safe. so jim was chill and agreed to roll with it, and then we kicked back, reminisced a bit, and tom started throwing mad questions. when jim mentioned that uncle silas would roll in every day or two to pray with him, and aunt sally would pop by to make sure he was comfy and had enough grub—both being basically the kindest ever—tom goes:

“now, i got the fix. we’ll ship some goodies your way through them.”

i was like, “nah, don’t even try that; it’s one of the dumbest moves i’ve ever thought of,” but he totally ignored me and kept on truckin’. that’s just how he is when his plan’s locked in.

so he broke it down to jim: we’d have to quietly smuggle in the rope-ladder pie and other chunky items via nat, the nay nay who fed him, and jim’s gotta be on high alert—don’t let nat catch him opening ‘em. we’d stash small stuff in uncle’s coat pockets for him to swipe; tie things to aunt’s apron strings or slip ‘em in her apron pocket if we got a chance; and he laid out what every item was for. he even told jim to keep a log on his shirt with his own blood and all that extra drama. jim wasn’t vibing with half of it, but he was like, “you white peeps know best,” so he was down to play along just as tom said.

jim had mad corn-cob pipes and tobacco, so we had a dope, chill session; then we crawled out through the gap and bounced back home to crash, our hands looking all chewed-up. tom was totally hyped. he claimed it was the dopest fun he ever had—super brainy too—and said if he could keep this turning, we’d keep the hustle going for life, leaving jim to our future kids to get him out later; ‘cause he was sure jim would warm up to it more and more. he even said this scam could stretch out for like eighty years and be the most epic saga on record. and, no cap, it’d make us all legends for being part of it.

in the morning, we hit the woodpile and hacked the brass candlestick into dope sizes, and tom stashed them along with the pewter spoon in his pocket. then we cruised over to the nay nay cabins, and while i jacked nat’s notice, tom jammed a piece of candlestick right into the center of a corn-pone chillin’ in jim’s pan. we rolled with nat to peep the reaction—and yo, it worked like magic; when jim chomped on it, the crunch straight-up mashed all his teeth. no cap, nothing coulda worked better. tom confirmed it himself. jim, ever cautious, acted like it was just a random rock that sometimes crashes in your bread, but after that he never bit into anything unless he jetted his fork in three or four times first.

and while we were chillin’ in that dim light, a couple of hounds started busting out from under jim’s bed—they just kept piling in until there were like eleven of ‘em, and there was barely any room to breathe. damn, we totally forgot to lock the lean-to door! the nay nay nat only hollered “witches” one time, then totally crashed onto the floor among the dogs, groaning like he was on his last level. tom quickly yanked the door open and flung out a slab of jim’s meat, and the pups went for it; in two seconds he bailed out, slammed the door shut, and i knew he’d fixed the other door too. then he went over to the nay nay, all soft, petting and coaxing him, asking if he’d been trippin’ and imagining things again. nat lifted up, blinked around, and goes:

“yo, mars sid, you’ll call me a clown, but if i didn’t believe i was seeing like a million pups, or devils, or something, id literally die right here in these vibes. i did, for real. yo, mars sid, i felt like—i felt like, damn; they were all over me. damn, i just wish i could get my hands on one of them witches just once—just once, that’s all i asked. but mostly, i just wished they’d leave me alone, ya feel me?”

tom then drops:

“well, here’s my two cents. what makes them roll up right at this wild runaway nay nay’s breakfast hour? it’s ‘cause they’re straight-up hungry; that’s the tea. you just whip up a witch pie—that’s the move for ya.”

“but bro, mars sid, how the heck am i gonna make a witch pie? i got no clue. i ain’t never peeped such a thing before.”

“well then, looks like i’m gonna have to DIY that thing.”

“will ya do it, babe?—will ya? i swear, i’ll scrub the floor under your foot!”

“aight, i’ll handle it, ‘cause you’re the real one and you’ve been solid showing us that runaway nay nay. but you gotta be hella careful. when we roll through, you gotta spin with your back turned; and whatever we drop in that pan, don’t even blink and let on you see it. and don’t even peek when jim unloads the pan—who knows what might pop off. and above all, don’t you even touch the witch stuff.”

“are you serious, mars sid? what are you even on about? i wouldn’t dare put my finger on that, not for, like, ten hundred trillion dollars, no cap.”
