book iii.

so like, these are our god-level theology principles—some stories get to be told, while others are totally ghosted from our young disciples, if we want them to give mad props to the gods and their parents and to keep that squad loyalty on point.

yeah; and i think our principles are straight fire, he said.

but if our squad is meant to be courageous, don’t they need to learn extra life hacks beyond these—lessons that totally wipe away that death anxiety? can any dude be brave if he’s constantly shook about dying?

deadass not, he said.

and can someone ever vibe as fearless of death, or will he choose an epic death in battle over a lame defeat and living in servitude, especially if he thinks the underworld is a legit horror show?

impossible, period.

so we gotta put the narrators of these tales on lockdown—not just letting them bash the underworld, but also pushing them to hype it up a bit, hinting that their wild descriptions are all cap and will seriously mess with our future warrior vibes.

that’s gonna be our duty, he said.

so, i said, we’ll have to yeet a bunch of obnoxious passages, starting with the verses,

  ‘i would rather be a serf on the land of a poor and portionless man than rule over all the dead who have come to nought.’

we also gotta delete that verse where pluto is all shook,

  ‘lest the mansions grim and squalid which the gods abhor should be seen both of mortals and immortals.’

and again:—

  ‘o heavens! verily in the house of hades there is soul and ghostly form but no mind at all!’

then again, from tiresias:—

  ‘(to him even after death did persephone grant mind,) that he alone should be wise; but the other souls are flitting shades.’

again:—

  ‘the soul flying from the limbs had gone to hades, lamenting her fate, leaving manhood and youth.’

again:—

  ‘and the soul, with shrilling cry, passed like smoke beneath the earth.’

and,—

  ‘as bats in hollow of mystic cavern, whenever any of them has dropped out of the string and falls from the rock, fly shrilling and cling to one another, so did they with shrilling cry hold together as they moved.’

and we must beg homer and the other poets not to get salty if we strike out these and similar passages—not ‘cause they’re unpoetical or offbeat for the masses, but 'cause the extra poetic charm actually makes them unfit for the ears of youth who are meant to be free and should fear being boxed in more than death.

no cap.

also, we gotta reject all those super creepy names that describe the underworld—cocytus and styx, ghostly figures under the earth, lifeless shades, and any similar words that make anyone’s soul shudder. i’m not saying these spooky stories are totally useless; but they risk making our guardians way too extra and soft.

that’s a real danger, he said.

then, we must have zero of that.

true.

we gotta come up with a fresh, nobler vibe to be composed and sung by us.

obviously.

and should we ditch the endless sob stories of famous peeps?

they’re gonna get yeeted with the rest.

but is it cool to toss them? think: our rule is that a truly good dude won’t see death as a mega tragedy for his homie.

yass, that’s the vibe.

so he won’t end up getting all emo over his departed friend like he’s been through a major L?

he won’t.

such a dude is solid on his own, so he doesn’t even need extra hype from others.

true, he said.

and for that reason, losing a son or brother, or even taking an L in fortune, is totally the least tragic loss ever for him.

assuredly.

therefore, he’s way less likely to be bawling and will take any misfortune with mad equanimity.

yup, he’ll shrug off that L way better than most.

so we’re totally legit in ditching the famous man-complaints and passing them off to women (and not even the ones who bring any value) or to lower-tier dudes—so our future defenders won’t catch that whiny vibe.

that’s mad right.

then, we’ll once again beg homer and the other poets not to depict achilles—the goddess’s son—as first lying on his side, then on his back, then on his face; then suddenly bouncing up and sailing in a total frenzy along the barren shore; then scooping sooty ashes in both hands and drenching his head, or going full cry-mode in all the various ways homer has detailed. nor should he describe priam, the god-kin, as praying and calling out,

  ‘rolling in the dirt, calling each man loudly by his name.’

even more, we’ll plead with him to ditch any scenes of the gods lamenting and saying,

  ‘alas! my misery! alas! that i bore the bravest to my sorrow.’

but if he must drop the gods into the mix, at the very least don’t let him misrepresent the greatest of them all by having him say—

  ‘o heavens! with my eyes verily i behold a dear friend of mine chased round and round the city, and my heart is sorrowful.’

or even:

  woe is me that i am fated to have sarpedon, dearest of men to me, subdued at the hands of patroclus the son of menoetius.

’cause if, my sweet adeimantus, our youth end up taking these unworthy portrayals of the gods seriously instead of laughing them off like they should, hardly anyone will think that, being only human, they can be disrespected by similar antics; nor will they shut down any sketchy impulses to do the same. instead of having any real guts or self-control, they’ll be left whining and crying over the tiniest L's.

yeah, he said, that’s so on point.

i replied, yes; but that’s exactly what shouldn’t fly, as the argument just proved to us; and we gotta stick to that proof until someone drops a better one.

it just ain’t allowed.

and our guardians shouldn’t be caught up in uncontrollable laughter either. because getting too much of a laugh attack almost always sparks off a wild reaction.

i believe that, for sure.

so, worthy peeps—even if just mortal—should never be shown as losing it to laughter, and even less should our gods be depicted as cracking up.

especially not the gods, as you say, he replied.

so we won’t allow any of that nonsense about the gods the way homer describes when he says

  ‘inextinguishable laughter arose among the blessed gods, when they saw hephaestus bustling about the mansion.’

according to your views, we ain’t admitting that.

on my views—if you wanna throw shade at me—it’s 100% certain we can’t allow it.

again, truth should be the ultimate flex; if, like we said, a lie has zero use for the gods and only works as a kind of remedy for mortals, then that remedy should only be in the hands of docs—regular folks have no business with that shiz.

clearly not, he said.

so if anyone’s gonna get the free pass to lie, it should only be the state rulers; and they, in dealing with enemies or their own squad, may drop lies for the public good. nobody else should be allowed to mess with that trade; and even though rulers have that privilege, if a regular dude tries to lie back to them it’s a way bigger no-no—like a patient not telling the truth about his own body issues to the doc, or a gym rat failing to spill the tea on his own gains, or a sailor not giving the captain the real deets about the ship and his crew.

most true, he said.

so if the ruler catches anyone besides himself fibbing in the state—

  ‘any of the craftsmen, whether he be priest or physician or carpenter,’

he’s gonna hit them with punishment for introducing a practice that messes up the whole ship and state vibe.

most certainly, he said, if our state idea ever goes live.

next up, our youth gotta be temperate, right?

certainly.

isn’t the whole point of temperance pretty much about obeying your commanders and keeping it under control when it comes to sensory indulgences?

true.

then we’re cool with language like that of diomede in homer,

  ‘friend, sit still and obey my word,’

plus the follow-up lines,

  ‘the greeks marched breathing prowess, ...in silent awe of their leaders,’

and all the same vibes.

we shall.

what about this line,

  ‘o heavy with wine, who hast the eyes of a dog and the heart of a stag,’

and the words that follow? would you say that these, or any similar disrespectful jabs that regular peeps are supposed to throw at their rulers—whether in verse or straight talk—are on point or totally off?

they’re totally off.

they might get a few laughs, but they don’t build real temperance, and so they’re likely to mess with our youth’s mindset—you with me?

yes.

and then, again, for the wisest to claim that nothing is more glorious than

  ‘when the tables are full of bread and meat, and the cup-bearer carries round wine which he draws from the bowl and pours into the cups,’

is that the kinda flex that actually boosts temperance for a young dude? or the verse

  ‘the saddest of fates is to die and meet destiny from hunger?’

what about that story of zeus, who—while all the other gods and men were catching z’s—was the only one up, scheming like a boss, but then his lust totally scrambled his plans, and he got so shook by here’s looks that he wouldn’t even step into her hut, just wanting to lay with her on the ground, declaring he’d never been in such a state of rapture before, not even when they first met

  ‘without the knowledge of their parents;’

or that other tea about how hephaestus, thanks to similar drama, chained up ares and aphrodite?

indeed, he said, i’m hella convinced that our youth should never get stuck on that kind of trash.

but any epic feats of endurance done or told by legendary peeps—that they should see and hear; for example, what’s dropped in the verses,

  ‘he smote his breast, and thus reproached his heart, endure, my heart; far worse hast thou endured!’

certainly, he said.

next, we must not let these youngins be all about receiving gifts or chasing money.

definitely not.

and we can’t be singing about

  ‘gifts persuading gods, and persuading reverend kings.’

nor should we hype up phoenix, achilles’ tutor, as having given dope advice when he told his pupil he should grab the greeks’ gifts and help them out—saying that without a gift he should keep his anger locked in. nor will we buy the idea that achilles was so money-obsessed that he took agamemnon’s gifts, or that when he got paid he returned hector’s body, but wouldn’t do so without the cash.

undoubtedly, he said, these vibes just aren’t cool.

i love homer, but i really can’t front that by blaming achilles or believing these feelings are truly his—i mean, that’s straight-up impiety. i can’t even buy the story of his insolence toward apollo, where he goes,

  ‘thou hast wronged me, o far-darter, most abominable of deities. verily i would be even with thee, if i had only the power;’

or his major disrespect toward the river-god, whose divinity he’s ready to throw down on; or his offering of his own hair to the dead patroclus—which had already been dedicated to the river-god spercheius—and that he actually pulled through on that vow; or that he dragged hector around patroclus’ tomb and slaughtered the captives at the pyre; i just can’t believe he was guilty of that, any more than i can let our citizens think that he—the wise cheiron’s pupil, the son of a goddess and of peleus (the gentlest of men and third in line from zeus)—was ever so scrambled in his head as to be down with two totally clashing vibes, petty meanness (not even free from greed) mixed with straight-up disdain for gods and men.

you’re on point, he replied.

and let’s also refuse to buy or spread the tale of theseus, son of poseidon, or of peirithous, son of zeus, going out to commit a horrid rape; or of any other hero or god’s son supposedly pulling off such impious and dreadful moves as they falsely credit them with these days—and let’s force the poets to declare either that these acts never went down or that these dudes aren’t really sons of gods; in either case, they’re never allowed to drop both claims in one breath. we won’t have them convincing our youth that the gods are behind all evil, and that heroes are no better than mere mortals—sentiments that, as we said, are neither pious nor true, since we already proved that no evil comes from the gods.

assuredly not.

and further, such tales will seriously mess with anyone who hears them—everyone will start making excuses for their own vices when they’re convinced that similar wickedness is always being dropped by

  ‘the kindred of the gods, the relatives of zeus, whose ancestral altar, the altar of zeus, is aloft in air on the peak of ida,’

and who got

  ‘the blood of deities yet flowing in their veins.’

so let’s put a hard stop to these tales, or they’ll totally loosen up the morals of our youth.

by all means, he replied.

but now that we’re laying down which topics are cool or not cool to talk about, let’s see if we missed any. how to treat the gods, demigods, heroes, and the underworld has already been set.

very true.

so what about mortals? that’s clearly the last piece of our vibe.

clearly so.

but right now, we’re not in the mood to answer that, my friend.

why not?

because, if i’m not mistaken, we gotta say that when it comes to mortals, poets and storytellers are the ones who seriously mess up by saying that wicked dudes are always happy and the good are forever miserable; that injustice pays off when it flies under the radar, but justice is just one man’s loss and another’s gain—this is the stuff we’re banning them from spitting, and we’ll force them to drop the opposite message.

for sure we will, he replied.

but if you agree that i’m right, then i gotta say you just dropped the principle we’ve been fighting for all along.

i grant that inference is on point.

whether such stuff should or shouldn’t be said about mortals is a question we can’t answer until we figure out what justice really is, and just how naturally beneficial it is to the one who rocks it—whether he seems just or not.

most true, he said.

enough about poetry topics—let’s talk style; and once we break that down, both what we say and how we say it will be 100% sorted.

i don’t even get what you mean, said adeimantus.

then i gotta break it down for you; maybe i’ll be clearer if i put it like this. you know, all mythology and poetry is basically just a retelling of events—past, present, or future, right?

certainly, he replied.

and a narrative can either be simple telling, straight-up imitation, or a mix of both?

that, he said, i don’t quite catch yet.

i fear i’m coming off as a goofy teacher if i can’t make myself clear. so, like a clumsy speaker, i won’t cover the whole topic—i’ll just break off a piece to show my point. you know the opening lines of the iliad, where the poet says that chryses begged agamemnon to free his daughter, and agamemnon flipped out; and then chryses, failing his mission, invoked the wrath of the god against the acheans?

now, about these lines,

  ‘and he prayed all the greeks, but especially the two sons of atreus, the chiefs of the people,’

the poet is straight-up speaking in his own voice; he never makes you think he’s anyone else. but after that, he channels chryses, doing everything to make us believe the speaker isn’t homer but the old priest himself. in this double flex, he drops the entire narrative of what went down at troy, in ithaca, and throughout the odyssey.

yes.

and the narrative stays intact in both the speeches the poet drops from time to time and in the in-between parts?

quite true.

but when the poet raps in someone else’s voice, can we say he’s matching his style to that person’s vibe, the one he tells you is about to spit?

certainly.

and this style mimicry—whether by voice or gesture—is just the imitation of that character’s own swagger?

of course.

so in that case, the poet’s narrative basically rolls out via imitation?

very true.

or, if the poet be flexing his presence everywhere and never sliding into stealth mode, then guess what, fam? the whole imitation vibe gets yeeted and his poetry turns into straight-up storytime, no cap. but to keep things crystal and avoid any “i don’t get it” moments, imma show you how to flip the switch. if Homer had dropped a line like, “the priest rolled up carrying his daughter’s ransom, straight up supplicating the acheans and especially the big-time kings;” and instead of chatting in Chryses mode he just went off as himself, then boom—the spit would be pure narrative, not that shady mimicry. the flow would’ve gone like this (i’m not about that poetic meter game, so imma bail on that): “the priest rolled up and threw a prayer to the gods for the greeks to snatch troy and get home safe, while begging to have his daughter returned, to scoop up his ransom, and to dish respect to the god. so he dropped those vibes, and the other greeks gave him mad props and were like, ‘on god, bet.’ but Agamemnon got heated and ordered him to bounce and never come back, ‘cause otherwise the god’s swag—like his staff and fancy chains—would be useless. no daughter free ride, he insisted—she’d just end up aging with him in Argos. then he said, “beat it and don’t provoke me if you wanna keep your skin intact.” and the old guy dipped in ghost mode, scared and silent, and once he cleared the camp, he hit up Apollo using all his handles, dropping reminders of every lit move he’d done—from temple builds to sacrifice flexes, praying that his good karma gets paid back and that the acheans would soak up his tears with god’s arrow rain”—and so it goes. in this way, the whole thing straight-up becomes narrative.

i gotchu, he said.

or maybe you’re like, “nah, let’s just cut the middleman and keep the dialogue only, fam.”

he said, “same vibes, i totally feel that; you’re talkin’ like how it goes in tragedy, right?”

you totally got my meaning; and if i’m not mistaken, what you didn’t catch earlier is now crystal—poetry and myth, sometimes, are all about straight-up imitation, like in tragedy and comedy where you’re basically copying the vibe. then there’s the flip side where the poet’s the solo act—dithyramb is the ultimate example of that—and when you mix both, you get epic and a bunch of other poetic drop-offs. you rollin’ with me?

“yeah, i see what you mean now,” he fired back.

and remember what i dropped at the start—we wrapped the subject, so now we're leveling up to the style, squad.

“yep, i remember that vibe,” he responded.

basically, i was hinting that we gotta figure out the rules for that mimic game—like, should we let poets drop imitations when telling their stories, and if so, are they allowed to mimic everything or just certain moves? or should we be like, “nah fam, no imitations allowed” altogether?

“so you’re asking if we should even let tragedy and comedy crash our state?”

“exactly,” i replied; “but trust, there’s more layers to this. i don’t know the full tea yet, but wherever the convo takes us, we're riding that wave.”

“bet, we’re going all in,” he answered.

so, Adeimantus, lemme hmu with this question: should our guardian squad be imitators? or ain’t we already lit with that rule that one peep can only boss one game at a time, and if he tries juggling too many, he ends up being a total noob with zero rep?

for sure, he shrugged.

and this holds for imitation too—like no guy can perfectly mimic a bunch of vibes as cleanly as he can nail just one, right?

absolutely cannot.

so it’s basically impossible for one dude to be a major player in life while also being a jack-of-all-trades in imitation— even when two styles are close, the same folks can’t slay both. like, think about the tragedians and comedists—didn’t you just tag them as imitations?

“yeah, i said that; you're spot on thinking one can't rock both lanes,” he agreed.

like, just as no one can be a rhapsodist and an actor at the same time, right?

true that.

and comic and tragic actors aren’t even cut from the same cloth; but yo, it’s all just imitation vibes.

yup, that's facts.

and look, Adeimantus, human nature itself is like chopped into tiny bits—it just can't handle imitating a load of stuff well, any more than it can nail the actual actions that those imitations are supposed to be copies of.

“deadass, that's on point,” he replied.

so real talk: if we stick to our original plan—where our guardians are all-in on keeping freedom lit in our state, dedicating every second to that hustle and not doing any side gigs—then they shouldn’t be practicing other imitations at all. and if they gotta mimic, they should only flex, from young age onward, the vibes that match their gig—the brave, the chill, the pure, the free, etc. no jousting with sketchy or lame vibes, or else they’ll end up becoming that garbage. ever peep how habits start in early youth and grind on so long they become a second skin for body, voice, and mind?

“fact, i’ve seen that for sure,” he said.

i continued, “then we’re not letting our peeps—those we claim are meant to be good guys—dip into imitating women, whether the young or old, whether she’s throwing shade at her man, flexing too hard against the gods about her own happiness, or when she’s low, sad, or bawling. and definitely not someone who’s in his sick, love, or grind mode.”

“for sure, that’s right,” he agreed.

should they also ever mimic slaves—dudes or dudettes doing their slave grind?

nah, they gotta not do that.

and obviously not sketchy dudes, whether they’re fronting as cowards or any other lame types, who flip the script on what we just laid down, dissing each other while boozed up or not, or who basically mess up their vibe with themselves and the squad in any way. nor should they ever be schooled into mimicking the moves or words of crazy or evil peeps; cuz madness, like bad vibes, is meant to be observed—not copied.

“no doubt, that's facts,” he replied.

and they ain’t allowed to mimic craftsmen, smiths, oarsmen, boatswains, or any of that crafty biz, right?

“how they gonna do that when we never gave them the license to vibe with those trades?” he shot back.

and they’re not gonna be copying horse whinnies, bull roars, river murmurs, ocean rolls, thunder sounds, and all that nature-based noise either, right?

“nah fam, if you’re banning madness, you gotta block copying mad peeps too,” he answered.

so, if i’m reading you right, you got two narrative vibes: one that a straight-up good dude drops when he’s got something to say, and another one that some opposite character with a different education uses, right?

“so which two styles you talkin’ about?” he asked.

“imagine this: a righteous, good guy, while telling a story, comes across some dope quote or move from another upstanding dude—I bet he'd vibe with that and not be trippin’ about imitating it. he'd be all in to play the role of the good guy when he's on that solid, wise grind; maybe less so if he's down with sickness, love, or drunk fails, or any other mess. but if he faces a persona that’s totally not his jam, he wouldn’t even bother studying it; he'd straight-up shun that vibe and only mimic it for a hot sec if he's doing something commendable. otherwise, he'd get embarrassed to act out a role he's never flexed, and he wouldn't wanna mold himself after those low-tier models—i mean, he thinks that kind of mimic game, unless for a joke, is beneath his level, and just the thought of it gives him major cringe.”

“i totally feel it,” he replied.

so basically, he’d go with a narration mode like Homer’s drop—mixing in a bit of imitation with mostly straight storytelling; you feel me?

“hell yeah, that’s the only way a speaker can roll,” he confirmed.

but then, there's also that character who’ll narrate anything, and honestly, the more trash he is, the more shameless he'll be—nothing's too extra for him. he’s down to mimic anything, not as a meme, but for real, fronting it in front of a crowd. like i was saying, he'll try to mimic the roll of thunder, the clout of wind and hail, or even the creaks of wheels and pulleys, and every sound drop from flutes, pipes, trumpets, and whatever instruments—he'll bark like a dog, bleat like a sheep, or crow like a rooster; his whole gig is all about copying voices and moves, with barely any solid narration.

“exactly, that’s his whole spiel,” he said.

so, these are the two basic style flexes, right?

“yep.”

you’d also vibe with the idea that one style is all about that low-key, minimal change mode; if you pick harmony and rhythm for their chill simplicity, then a proper speaker stays pretty much on-point in his style, sticking to one vibe (since the tweaks are minor), and keeps using almost the same rhythmic flex.

“facts, straight up true,” he affirmed.

whereas the other style is like an all-out remix with wild harmonies and rhythms, if the music’s gotta match the style, since that style is packing a bunch of changes.

“i'm with you, that’s 100% true,” he replied.

and honestly, isn’t it that all poetry and every kinda wordplay falls into one of these two styles, or a mix of them? basically, no one can spit words unless they’re riding one lane or a collab of both.

“yep, they cover the whole spectrum,” he said.

so, are we gonna let in all three style vibes, or just stick to the two pure, unmixed ones? or maybe even the blended mix?

“i’d vote for just accepting the pure mimic of virtue,” i said.

“true,” i added, “Adeimantus, but gotta admit, the mixed style got its own charm. like, the full-on pantomime vibe—which is totally the opposite of what you’re about—is a huge hit with kids, their peeps, and basically everyone out there.”

i won’t lie, that's real.

but i bet you'll be like, “nah fam, that style just ain’t a fit for our state, where human nature is one-track, each dude only playing one role, ya know?”

“exactly, totally unsuitable,” he replied.

and that’s why in our state—and only in our state—a shoemaker sticks to shoes, not flying planes; a farmer is a farmer and not, like, a big business mogul; and a soldier stays soldier, not flipping into a trader—and it’s the same story all around, right?

“true that,” he said.

so, when some pantomime dude—one of those too-cool-to-be-true types who’s flexing that wild knack for imitating anything—rolls up and proposes to put on his poetry show, we'll be like, “we stan you, holy and awesome being!” but then we gotta drop the news that our state ain’t about that life for them; the law’s straight-up anti that vibe. so once we bless him with myrrh and crown him with that woolly garland, we’re gonna ship him out to another city. cuz we’re here to vibe with the raw, no-nonsense poet or storyteller—one who only mimics the virtues and sticks to the original models we set up when we started schooling our soldiers.

“for sure, if we got the juice,” he replied.

so now, my dude, i said, that segment of our literary ed—talkin’ stories and myths—is wrapped up, since we broke down the content and the style.

“yeah, i’m down with that,” he said.

next up on our playlist is melody and song.

obviously, fam.

everyone can see what the tea is on that, if we’re not about to contradict ourselves.

“i gotta say, laughing, the term ‘every one’ might not even cover me rn, cuz i’m kinda blank on what they should be, though i got some guesses,” Glaucon chuckled.

anyway, you can peep that a song or ode breaks down into three pieces—the words, the melody, and the rhythm; is that level of deets cool with you?

“for sure, that’s legit,” he confirmed.

and about the words, there’s no diff between the ones paired with a beat and those that aren’t; they gotta follow the same rules—rules we already set, right?

“yup,” he agreed.

so the melody and rhythm are basically riding off the words, correct?

“no doubt,” he replied.

remember when we dropped that, while discussing the subject, we don’t need all that extra moaning and sorrow in the musical strains?

“true that,” he agreed.

so, which harmonies are all about that sorrow vibe? you’re the musical whiz, so spill it.

the ones you mean are the mixed or tenor lydian and that full-sounding or bass lydian, among others.

so i said, these beats gotta get the boot—even for the ladies who got their own drip, and def not for the dudes.

“straight up,” he agreed.

next up, being drunk, soft, and lazy is totally not the move for our guardian crew.

“mad not acceptable,” he affirmed.

so, which harmonies are known as the soft, boozy vibes?

“it’s the ionian and lydian—they’re basically dubbed as ‘chill,’” he answered.

and are those beats even useful in the military scene, though?

“nah, on the contrary,” he shot back; “if we need a battle vibe, then only dorian and phrygian are in the game.”

so i replied: look, i might not be a harmony expert, but i need one battle-ready vibe to drop that warlike tone—a note that a brave soul drops when danger’s knocking, when things are going south, or when he’s about to get wrecked, yet meets every bad beat with pure determination to keep going; and i need another vibe for those chill peace times when there ain’t pressure, and he’s out here persuading god with prayers, schooling folks with solid advice, or even showing his soft side by yielding to some entreaty. it’s that vibe when he reaches his goals without getting carried away by success but stays humble and wise. so, i’m asking you to ditch the extra strains—the strain of necessity and the strain of freedom, the strain of the unlucky and the lucky, the strain of courage, and the strain of temperance; drop those.

“those are basically the dorian and phrygian vibes i was spitting about,” he replied.

so, i said, if it's just these two harmonies in our jams, then we don’t need a crazy mashup of notes or a panharmonic scale, right?

“i guess not,” he agreed.

then, that means we’re not supporting those lyre makers with their triple-cornered, complex scales or any other stringed wizardry with super complex harmonies, right?

“definitely not,” he said.

but what about the flute squad—the makers and players? do we even let them in our state, when you think about it, since in this mix the flute is, like, worse than all those stringed instruments combined; even panharmonic jams are just a poor imitation of the flute?

“hell no,” he stated.

so, it boils down to only letting the lyre and the harp live in the city, while out in the sticks the shepherds can chill with a pipe.

that's clearly the endgame of our convo, i reckon.

i also noted that picking Apollo and his gear over Marsyas and his setup is totally logical.

“not even a bit,” he replied.

and so, by the dog of Egypt, without even realizing it, we've been cleansing our state—the one we not long ago called luxurious.

“and that was a genius move,” he said.

so, now let’s finish this cleanse, i said. next up, after harmonies, come rhythms—and they gotta follow the same playbook. we shouldn’t be chasing overly complex meter systems or every kind of meter out there, but rather discover the rhythms that shout out a brave, harmonious life; and once we nail them down, we’ll match the beat and melody with words that pulse the same energy—not the other way around. now, you gotta school me on what these rhythms are, just like you did with harmonies!

“but honestly, i can’t break it down for you,” he replied. “all i know is that there are like three core rhythm principles that form all metrical systems, kinda like how there are four notes in a tetrachord that make up every harmony. that’s just something i observed. but which vibes each of them truly imitates in life? i’m not really sure, fam.”

so then, i said, we gotta bring Damon into our circle; he'll drop the knowledge on what rhythms scream meanness, insolence, fury, or other cringeworthy vibes—and which ones are pure for expressing the opposite feels. i kinda recall him mentioning this gnarly complex cretic rhythm; also a dactylic, or heroic one, and he broke them down in a way i can’t fully decode—making the beats alternate long and short in perfect sync; and i think he even threw in details on iambic and trochaic rhythms, giving them short and long beats. sometimes he even appeared to vibe more with the movement of the beat rather than the rhythm itself, or maybe a mix of both; honestly, i’m not 100% sure what he was on about. anyway, these deets are best left to Damon ‘cause it gets hella complicated, ya dig? (Socrates was lowkey sketching over here, acting like he didn’t know all the nitty-gritty—in the first part dropping paeonic rhythms at a 3/2 ratio, then dactylic and anapaestic rhythms at a 1/1 ratio, and finally iambic and trochaic rhythms rocking a 1/2 or 2/1 ratio.)

“that’s on the money,” i replied.

but look, it’s super clear that having grace or being clumsy is straight-up the result of banging out a good or bad rhythm.

“no cap, none at all,” he agreed.

and also, solid or trash rhythm just vibes with good or bad style overall; similarly, harmony and discord fall in line with the style—basically, our main principle is that the words call the shots for rhythm and harmony, not the other way around.

“exactly, they gotta follow the words,” he confirmed.

and isn’t it that the words and the overall style are straight-up a reflection of one’s inner vibe or soul temperament?

“yep,” he said.

and basically, all of that style stuff?

“yes indeed,” he chimed in.

so, in the end, dope style, harmony, grace, and bomb rhythm come from pure simplicity—I’m talkin’ about the genuine, next-level simplicity of a properly ordered, noble mind and character, not that fake simplicity that’s just a fancy term for dumbass behavior?

“facts, that's 100% true,” he replied.

and if our young guns are gonna crush it in life, aren’t they supposed to be on a constant grind to lock in that style, those harmonies, and all that dope grace?

“they absolutely gotta,” he replied.

and no cap, the art of painters and every creative or building hustle is loaded with that vibe—whether it’s weaving, embroidery, architecture, or any kind of craft; even nature—every animal and plant—shows off that grace or its lack. ugliness, discord, and messy, off-beat motion are essentially the evil twins of bad words and shady nature, just like grace and harmony are the legit twin queens of goodness and virtue, repping the same look.

“i totally agree,” he said.

but so, are we just gonna police our squad’s vibes to only let poets flex that “good energy” in their work, and if they drop any extra cringe, they get straight yeeted outta our state? or you tryna extend that same rule to every creator out here—sculptors, builders, and all the arts—banning any display of shady vice, wild excess, mean energy, and basic indecency, so that anyone who can’t keep it 100 gets blocked from practicing their craft here, ‘cause we ain’t about our citizens catching bad vibes? we def don’t want our guardians growing up in a toxic meme garden full of moral deformities—like chillin’ in a noxious pasture, munching on nasty herbs and flowers day by day, slowly building a festering dumpster fire inside their soul. let our creators be those who can actually spot the real drip of beauty and grace; then our youth will live in a healthy vibe zone, surrounded by lit sights and sounds, soaking up nothing but the good, as beauty—the drip of fire works—flows into their eyes and ears like a fresh, health-giving breeze from a cleaner zone, subtly pulling their souls from day one into full-on homie mode with the beauty of reason.

that training is the sickest, no cap, he replied.

and so, i said, glaucon, getting crunk with music is a way stronger tool than anything else, ‘cause the rhythm and harmony slide right into the soul’s dm’s, locking in mad grace—making a well-educated soul hella graceful and an ill-educated one, sus and off-key; plus, the real ones who get this inner vibe will peep every glitch in art and nature, and with genuine taste, as they hype up and soak in the good, turning noble and dope, they’ll also call out the lame and hate the bad, even back in their early days before they can even explain why; and when reason finally shows up, they’ll nod to that homie who’s been with them since day one.

yes, he replied, i totally vibe with you that our youth gotta get tuned in to music and all that lit stuff you mentioned.

like, when we learned to read, we got hyped just by knowing the few letters of the alphabet in all their remix sizes and combos—not brushing them off as unimportant whether they show up big or small, but always tryna spot ‘em, and not flexing our reading game until we could peep them everywhere:

for real—

or, like, we only recognize letters in their water or mirror reflections ‘cause we know the real ones; that same grind of study gives us both:

facts—

even so, as i maintain, neither we nor our guardians—our crew to school up—can ever get that musical glow until we all know the core drip of temperance, courage, liberality, magnificence, and their whole squad, as well as the flip side of those in every remix, and can spot them wherever they pop up, no matter if it’s a small tea spill or a big move, ‘cause they’re all part of one epic art study.

no doubt, fam.

and when a lit soul clicks with a fire form, and they’re basically molded as one, that’s the dopest sight for anyone with eyes to see it?

straight up the dopest.

and the dopest is also the prettiest, then?

bet, we can assume that.

and a dude with harmony vibes will def fall for the prettiest, but he ain’t tryna vibe with someone whose soul is off-key, right?

true that, he replied, if the flaw’s in the soul; but if someone’s just rockin’ a minor bod glitch, he’ll be chill and still love ‘em.

i feel ya, i said—i know you’ve been through that, and i’m down with it. now, real talk: does an overdose of pleasure ever vibe with temperance?

how’s that even? he fired back; pleasure can totally rob a dude of his skills just as hard as pain.

or any links to virtue overall?

nah, none at all.

what about wild, unfiltered decadence?

hell yeah, that’s the ultimate.

and is there any pleasure more lit or wild than straight-up sensual love?

nah, nothing crazier.

meanwhile, true love is all about beauty and order—chill and on-beat, right?

deadass, he said.

so no unruly or cray pleasure should ever crash the true love party?

bet, definitely not.

so, no mad or out-of-control pleasure can ever slide into the DM’s of the lover duo if their vibe’s pure?

nah, for real, socrates, it should stay way outta their circle.

so i guess in our next-gen city, you’d drop a law saying that a friend should only vibe with his love like a dad vibes with his kid—and only for a noble cause, with full-on consent; this rule keeps all interactions in check, and if someone goes too far, they’re officially flagged for bad manners and cringe.

i totally vibe with that, he said.

that’s pretty much the tune, right? ‘cause what else should music drop if not the love of beauty?

i’m onboard, he said.

after that, it’s time for gym—our youth need to get drilled in the body hustle next.

fo sho.

both gym and music gotta start in the early years; the training should be precise and last a lifetime. here’s my take—and i wanna hear your vibe too—not that a banging bod automatically levels up the soul, but that a lit soul, through its own excellence, amps up the bod as much as possible. what you say?

facts, i vibe with that.

so once the mind is on fleek, we can hand off the nitty-gritty of body care; and to keep it short, i’ll just drop the general outline of the idea.

straight fire.

we already agreed that guardians gotta stay sober af; out of everyone, they should be the last to get lit and lost in the sauce.

preach, he said; for a guardian to need another guardian to hold him down is straight-up absurd.

but next up, what about grub? our dudes are training for the ultimate showdown, right?

yep, he said.

and do our regular athlete vibes even cut it for them?

why not, bro?

but fr, i gotta say, the typical athlete routine is kinda sleepy and low-key risky for health. don’t you peep how these athletes basically snooze through life, and if they even slightly stray from their daily grind, they get hit with some dangerous bugs?

facts, i see that.

so, i said, our warrior athletes need a next-gen training—like being as alert as livestream mod dogs, with eagle eyes and super-sharp ears; through all the wild water changes, food swaps, scorching summers, and icy winters during campaigns, they gotta be built tough to dodge any health breakdowns.

that’s my take.

the ultimate gym hustle is like the twin bro of that simple, chill music vibe we just dropped.

how come, tho?

like, i think there’s a gym routine that’s just as simple and dope as our music—especially military-style training.

what’s your angle?

look, my vibe is clear from homer; you know he dished out soldier grub to his heroes during campaigns—no fish even when chillin’ by the hellespont, and no boiled meats, only roast, which is the ultimate soldier snack that just needs a quick fire and skips the drama of pots and pans.

facts.

and i’m not tripping if i say homer never even drops sweet sauces. banning ‘em isn’t new; all pro athletes know that if you wanna stay in peak form, you gotta nix that sauce.

true that, he said; and hella right, they skip that sauce.

so you wouldn’t vibe with syracusan dinners or that fancy sicilian chef life, right?

nah, i don’t think so.

and if a dude’s tryna stay on fleek, you wouldn’t let him roll with a corinthian girl as his bae, right?

definitely not.

and you wouldn’t cop athenian sweets hyped as delicacies either?

no way.

all that gourmet livin’ is like dialing in on a panharmonic jam—smooth rhythms and pure vibes all the way.

preach.

where complexity breeds chaos and sickness, simplicity in music is the OG source of chill in the soul, and simplicity in gym brings boss-level health to the bod.

facts, he said.

but when wild vibes and illnesses spread in a state, you end up with new justice halls and med centers popping off; docs and lawyers start flexin’, ‘cause not just the NPCs but the whole city gets lowkey obsessed with ‘em.

obviously.

and honestly, what proves a state is hella trash in education more than when not only low-key artisans and basic peeps need top-tier docs and judges, but even those who claim they got a fancy, liberal education? isn’t it pure cringe and basic that a dude has to bounce outta his own crib to get law and med help ‘cause he’s got nada at home, basically handing over the remote to random big shots?

of everything, he said, that’s the most cringe.

would you say “most” when there’s even an extra cringe phase where a dude spends his whole life in court—either as plaintiff or defendant—and gets hyped on his own litigious hustle, thinking he’s the ultimate hack who can dodge justice like a bendy emoji, all just for petty points that ain’t even worth flexing about, not realizing that setting up his life to do without a snoozing judge is way higher level? isn’t that even more cringe?

yeah, he said, that’s even more mad cringe.

well, i said, and having to call in med help not when you’re hurt or during a legit outbreak, but just ‘cause, thanks to laziness and that offbeat lifestyle we’ve been vibin’ about, dudes end up filling themselves with water and wind like their bodies are swamps—forcing the genius sons of asclepius to coin new names for diseases like flatulence and catarrh—isn’t that super cringe too?

yeah, he said, they seriously be naming diseases like it’s the newest tiktok trend.

yeah, i said, and i don’t believe these cray diseases even existed back in asclepius’s day; like, check it—hero eurypylus, after getting wrecked in homer, chugs some pramnian wine all sprinkled with barley-meal and grated cheese (definitely inflammatory), yet the asclepius squad at the trojan war didn’t even roast the girl who handed it over or call out patroclus for his care.

well, he said, that drink was hella extra for someone in that state.

not even that extra, i replied, if you remember that back in the day—like before herodicus—asclepius’s crew didn’t roll with our modern med system that basically trains up diseases. but herodicus, being a trainer and low-key sickly himself, mixed up training and doctoring to basically torture himself first and then the rest of us.

how so? he asked.

by coming up with lingering death; he had this mortal condition he constantly buzzed about, and since a glow-up was never in the cards, he spent his whole life as a hypochondriac, only caring for himself, and got major pain whenever he strayed from his routine—dying hard, yet science kept him hustling into old age.

that was a rare flex of his talent!

yeah, i said; it’s the kind of win a dude might expect if he never got that asclepius wasn’t schooling his fam in hypochondria—not ‘cause he was clueless, but ‘cause he knew that in a well-run state everyone’s got a grind to stick to, so they ain't got time to be forever sick. we see this with regular artisans, but weirdly enough, we don’t hold rich folks to the same standard.

what you mean? he asked.

i mean this: when a carpenter gets sick, he’s not tryna get a gourmet med plan—he just wants a quick fix like an emetic, purge, cautery, or even a slice; that’s his remedy. and if a doc tries to feed him a whole diet plan, telling him to wrap his head up like a burrito, he’s like, “i got no time for this sickness,” ‘cause life’s too short to nurse a disease over his usual hustle. so he ditches that doc, goes back to his grind, and either levels up and keeps hustling or, if his bod can’t keep up, he exits without extra drama.

facts, he said—and a dude in that hustle should only roll with medicine to that extent.

doesn’t he, i said, have a job? and what’s the point of living if you lose your hustle?

deadass, he said.

but with rich dudes, it’s different; we don’t say they got a specific grind they must keep up with if they wanna live.

they’re usually seen as having nada to do.

then you ain’t heard the phocylides line that says once you got a livelihood, you should practice virtue?

nah, he said, i think you should start way sooner.

so let’s not debate phocylides on this, i said; rather, let’s ask ourselves: is living virtuously a must for rich peeps, or can they slide without it? and if it’s a must, then doesn’t this constant body maintenance of disorders—which messes with your mind in carpentry and the mechanical arts—also block the phocylides vibe?

on that, he replied, no cap; too much body upkeep beyond gym rules seriously hinders living virtuous.

preach, i replied, and it’s not cool for running a house, an army, or any state office either; and most importantly, it totally clashes with deep study, thought, or self-reflection—everyone’s always suspecting that headaches and brain fog come from philosophy, so trying high-level virtue just gets blocked, ‘cause you’re constantly tripping that you’re getting sick and stressing over your bod.

facts, for sure.

and so, our woke asclepius only dropped his med magic on folks who were usually healthy but hit a specific snag; he’d cure ‘em with purges and ops, then tell them to bounce back to their usual grind—keeping the state’s interests in check; but if someone’s body was totally wrecked by disease, he wouldn’t even try a slow-mo fix. he wasn’t about prolonging trash lives or letting weak dads spawn even weaker kids; if you weren’t built for the everyday hustle, you weren’t worth the cure—‘cause that fix wouldn’t help you or the state anyway.

so, he said, you’re basically saying asclepius was a straight-up statesman.

obviously; and his character even shines brighter when you peep his sons. remember, these dudes were heroes back in the day, rockin’ that med game at the siege of troy—remember when pandarus wounded menelaus, and they

sucked the blood outta the wound and sprinkled soothing remedies—

but they never dished out advice on what the patient should munch or sip after, whether it was menelaus or eurypylus; the remedies, in their book, were enough to fix anyone who was hella healthy and had a regular vibe before getting wrecked; and even if a dude chugged a posset of pramnian wine, he’d bounce back just fine. but they straight-up ghosted on unhealthy and over-the-top trash subjects, whose lives were no good for themselves or anyone else; med art wasn’t designed for their level of cray, and even if they were loaded like midas, asclepius’s sons would just pass on 'em.

those asclepius sons were mad smart, fr.

naturally, i replied. still, the tragedians and pindar went off-script—although they admit asclepius was apollo’s son, they also say he got bribed to heal a rich dude on death’s door, and for that, he got struck by lightning. but we, staying true to our vibe, ain’t buying both sides—if he’s a god’s son, he can’t be a greedy simp; or if he’s greedy, then he ain’t divine.

all that, socrates, is lit; but here’s a question for you: shouldn’t our state have dope physicians, and ain’t the best ones those who’ve treated the most bodies, good or bad? and similarly, aren’t the top judges the ones who know all the different moral vibes?

yep, i said, i’m all for having fire judges and med docs. but you know who i think is truly good?

spill the tea.

i will, if i can. but first, note that you’re lumping together two totally different things here.

how so? he asked.

like, i said, you’re mixing up doctors and judges. the dopest med docs are those who, since day one, have stacked up mad experience with diseases along with their art; they shouldn’t be all robust and unbreakable, ‘cause if they were, they’d never have known what sickness is. they heal the bod with their mind, and a sick mind can’t cure a thing.

facts, he said.

but judges are a whole ‘nother story; since they run the mind game mind-to-mind, they shouldn’t have been raised among shady, evil peeps or soaked in criminal vibes from the jump—so they can easily spot others’ crimes like diagnosing a bod’s disease from their own experience; an honorable mind built for solid judgment should come up clean, with zero contamination of shady habits in its youth. and that’s why sometimes, young good dudes seem a bit basic and get played by the sneaky ones, ‘cause they haven’t seen what real evil looks like up close.

yes, he said, they get tricked way too easily.

so, i was like, look, the judge should def not be some young rookie; he gotta clock evil not by catching it in his own soul but by lowkey peeping how other folks get their hands dirty – knowledge should be his ride or die, not just his own cringe experience.

yep, he said, that's the ideal judge flex, no cap.

yup, i replied, and he’ll be a straight-up good dude (that’s my answer to your q) ‘cause if your soul’s lit, you’re all good.

but yo, that shady, sus vibe we were dissing – the dude who’s stacked with crimes and thinks he’s a boss at wickedness when he’s chillin’ with his crew – is extra with his precautions, ‘cause he sizes up others by checking himself first; but when he rolls with the old-school, virtuous homies, those seasoned peeps, he lowkey turns into a total clown ‘cause his extra suspicions are off the charts – he can’t peep an honest bro ‘cause he’s never sampled that honest vibe in himself; and since the sketchy squad outnumbers the dope ones and he’s always bumping into them, he ends up thinking (and gets labeled) as wise rather than a complete noob.

facts, he said.

so, the dope and wise judge we’re chasing isn’t this shady dude but the other one; ‘cause vice can’t really vibe with virtue too, and only that fire, time-schooled dude will net the deets on both virtue and vice – in my book, the legit man (not the sketchy one) holds the wisdom.

i’m on the same page.

this is the kinda drip, the kinda law, you’re gonna sanction in your state. it’s all about boosting the better vibes – healing the soul and the body; but those who are hella borked in the body get left to yeet themselves into oblivion, and the forever-rotten souls? they get auto-deleted.

no cap, that’s the ultimate flex for both the peeps and the state.

so our young homies, schooled only on that chill beat which inspires real moderation, are gonna be lowkey like “nah, law ain’t our vibe.”

obviously.

and the musician, who’s cruising on that same track, sticking with the basic gym flex instead of getting all fancy, ain’t gonna dabble in medicine unless things get super extreme.

i totally believe that.

the workouts and drills he’s hitting are meant to fire up his inner hype squad – not about getting jacked like some gym bro flexing his muscles; he ain’t out here using exercise to bulk up like the average athlete.

deadass, he said.

btw, these two arts – music and gym – aren’t just split like old-school stereotypes, one for training the soul and the other for buffing the body.

so, what’s the actual drip here?

i reckon, i said, that the teachers behind both are mainly about leveling up the soul.

how’s that even a thing? he asked.

didn’t you peep how going all-in on gym turns your mind into a beast mode that’s hard and ferocious, while vibing exclusively on tunes leaves you all soft and extra?

how so? he said.

i replied, gym vibes forge a spirit that’s tough and savage, whereas too much music leaves you soft and, honestly, a bit extra.

yep, he said, i totally get that a straight-up athlete can go full savage, and a full-time musician might melt and get more extra than is healthy.

but trust, i said, that ferocity is all about spirit – if you school it right, it gives you mad courage, but push it too hard and it turns into brutal, hard-edged force.

i’m totally on board with that.

on the flip side, a philosopher’s vibe is all chill and gentle; sure, get too much of it and you’re over-soft, but if you keep it balanced, you’re mellow and moderate.

word.

so, in our squad, the guardians gotta rock both that raw fire and that chill calm, right?

for sure.

and they’ve gotta be in perfect sync?

big facts.

so the harmonized soul is both chill and lit, right?

yeah.

and the off-key, inharmonious vibe? pure wack – cowardly and extra boorish.

deadass.

now, when a dude lets tunes blast through his ears – those sweet, soft, melancholic beats we just talked about – and he spends his whole life vibing in song, at first his inner fire gets tempered like legit iron, turning that raw passion into something useful instead of brittle clout.

but if he keeps that soft, soothing remix on repeat for too long, he starts melting down, wasting his vibe until his spirit’s nearly erased and his inner strength gets chopped – and bam, he turns into a feeble warrior.

facts.

if his inner hustle is already weak sauce, that meltdown drops super fast; but if he’s packing mad spirit, then too much music can make him extra trigger-happy – on the slightest tea he’s all fired up and then quickly fizzles out; instead of solid vibe, he turns irritable and overreacts, making him totally impractical.

preach.

so in gym life, if a dude goes beast-mode on his workouts and eats like a champ – basically, the antithesis of a soft music/philosophy buff – then at first his killer body fills him with pride and inner spirit, doubling his man-power.

facts.

but then, what’s the move? if he does nada else, never hollers with the muses, and his brain never gets that cultural upgrade or proper learning, his smarts will get all feeble, dull, and straight-up blind – his mind stays asleep and his senses never clear up.

facts, he said.

and he eventually ends up hating philosophy, turning uncivilized, never throwing down any savvy persuasion – he’s like a wild beast, all violent and fierce, with zero chill; living in complete ignorance and shady conditions, with no hint of class or grace.

that’s straight-up true, he said.

and since there are two core vibes in human nature – one is the spirited hype and the other the deep philosophical – some god, as i’d say, dropped two arts into our lives (linking only indirectly to the soul and body) so that these two parts, like the strings on an instrument, can be loosened or tightened until they’re perfectly harmonized.

word, that seems to be the plan.

and the one who mixes tunes with gym in the dopest balance, syncing them perfectly with the soul, can rightfully be called the ultimate musician and harmonist – way beyond just a basic string tuner.

you’re totally on point, socrates.

and a boss-level genius like that will always be needed in our state if our government is ever gonna last.

yep, he is a must, no cap.

so, those are our core principles of nurture and education: why even get into the nitty-gritty of our citizens’ dance moves, hunting, racing, gym battles, or equestrian showdowns? they all ride on that universal vibe, and once we nail that, breaking down the details is pure chill.

i bet, no cap, it’ll be a walk in the park.

sweet, i said; so what’s next? shouldn’t we ask who gets to call the shots and who’s just along for the ride?

lit, for sure.

no doubt, the older squad has gotta run the show over the younger.

facts.

and obviously, only the elite gets to be in charge.

no cap, that’s plain.

and aren’t the top farmers the ones who are all in on the farm life?

yep.

and since we need the dopest guardians for our city, they gotta have all the guardian vibes, right?

definitely.

and for that, they need to be smart and on point, always looking out for the state’s biz?

true.

and a dude’s most likely to care about what he loves?

to be sure.

and he’s gonna love what he thinks matches his own vibe, and what he figures is gonna impact his life the most – be that good or bad?

deadass, he replied.

so, we gotta do some serious filtering. let’s scope out among the guardians those who, their entire lives, are hella hyped to flex for their country and straight up cringe at any move against her interests.

those are the right men.

and they gotta be watched at every level, so we can peep if they stay true to their commitment and never, whether by force or some sus mind game, ghost on their duty to the state.

“how ghost on their duty?” he asked.

i’d break it down, i replied: a resolution can dip from a dude’s mind either by choice or without his say; by choice when he ditches a fake vibe for something real, or against his will when someone straight-up robs him of the truth.

i get it, he said – like, willingly dropping a mindset; but the involuntary loss? still in beta for me, bro.

so, i said, don’t you see that dudes get robbed of the good vibes against their will while they willingly chase the bad? losing the truth is straight-up wack, and having it is lit – you’d agree that seeing things as they truly are means you’re rolling with the truth, right?

yeah, he replied; i agree that people get their truth stolen, even if they don’t sign up for it.

and ain’t that involuntary truth loss all about theft, force, or some sketchy enchantment?

still, he replied, i ain’t fully vibing with what you’re saying.

i guess i was dropping tragic, deep feels like the old tragedians. all i mean is, some dudes get switched up by persuasion while others just straight up forget; arguments can snatch a class’s heart, and time does it for another – that’s what i call theft. you down with that?

yep.

and those who are forced? they’re the ones who flip their opinions ‘cause some heavy pain or grief slaps 'em into change.

got it, he said, and you’re dead on.

and you gotta admit that the enchanted are those who switch up their minds either ‘cause of chill pleasure vibes or hardcore fear?

yep, he said; anything that deceives can be called enchanting.

so then, as i was saying, we gotta scope out which guardians are truly loyal to the idea that the state’s best interest rules their lives. we gotta watch them from the jump, throw them into situations where they might get tricked or forget, and the one who keeps it 100 and isn’t fooled gets picked – and anyone who flops gets benched. that the move?

for sure.

and we should hit ‘em with some major challenges – toils, pains, and conflicts – so they can prove those same boss vibes even harder.

facts, he replied.

and then, i said, we gotta test them with enchantments – that’s like our third boss level – and peep their reaction: just like testing colts in a ruckus to see if they’re timid, we gotta toss our youth into epic terrors and then slide them into pleasures, testing ‘em harder than gold gets melted in a furnace, to see if they’re built against all mind games, and always keep that regal, rhythmic, harmonious vibe – the kind that’s hella useful for both the individual and the state.

and whoever, at every stage – as a kid, youth, and mature adult – comes out of these trials victorious and pure, gets crowned as a ruler and guardian of the state; they’ll be honored in life and in death, receiving the highest tributes we can drop. but anyone who fails? they get rejected, no doubt. i’m leaning that this is the blueprint for picking our rulers and guardians. i speak in general terms, no cap on exactness.

and, overall, i agree with you, he said.

and maybe the title “guardian” in the full-on sense should only go to that upper-tier squad who keeps us safe from foreign haters and holds down peace at home – so no one’s gonna have the will or power to mess with us. the young dudes we used to call guardians? they’re more like our backup, the sidekicks supporting the rulers’ principles.

i agree, he said.

so, how do we cook up one of those essential fakes we mentioned – just one royal lie that might even fool the rulers (if that’s even possible) and, at the very least, the rest of the city?

“what kinda lie?” he asked.

nothing fresh, i replied; just an old phoenician tale (from the laws) about stuff that’s popped off before in other places – like the poets say and had the world buy into – though not in our current scene, and i ain’t even sure if something like that could ever drop again or be made likely now.

yo, your words sound hella hesitant!

don’t trip on my pause, i replied – wait ‘til you hear the rest.

“spill it,” he said, “and don’t be scared.”

alright then, i’ll drop it, even though i ain’t really sure how to look you in the eye or what drip to use for this audacious fiction i’m about to drop gradually – first to the rulers, then the soldiers, and finally to the people. they’re gonna be told that their youth was just a dream, and all that education and training they got from us was basically a front; in reality, during all that time they were being prepped and fed in the earth’s own womb, where they and their gear were crafted from scratch; when they were done, the earth, their mama, sent them up; so since their country is both their mama and their nurse, they’re bound to always have her back, defend her from haters, and treat her citizens like earth’s own kiddos and their own bros.

you had legit reason, he said, to be lowkey ashamed of that lie you were about to drop.

true, i replied, but there’s more tea – i’ve only spilled half. in our tale, we’ll tell the citizens: you’re all bros, but god made you different. some of you flex with command power ‘cause he mixed a little gold into you – that’s why you get the highest honors; others got silver, meant to be the wingmen; and some, destined to be farmers and craftsmen, got cast as brass and iron – and this mix goes down in the kids too. but since everyone’s from the same OG squad, sometimes a golden parent drops a silver kid, or a silver parent pops out a golden one. and god’s like, first rule to the rulers is to guard that pure lineage above everything – nothing is more crucial to watch than the mix in your offspring. ‘cause if a golden or silver kid gets too much brass and iron mixed in, nature flips the script, and the ruler’s gotta be cool about the kid dropping a rank to become a farmer or artisan – just like artisan kids with a dash of gold or silver get bumped up to guardian or wingman status. plus, an oracle’s out here saying that if a brass or iron dude ends up guarding the state, it’s game over. that’s the story; think our citizens can buy into it?

not with the current generation, he replied; it just ain’t gonna fly – but their sons, then their grandsons, and all the posterity after could be made to vibe with this tale.

i feel you on the struggle, i replied; still, if we can get this belief rolling, it’ll make them care harder for the city and for each other. but enough about the fiction, which is about to go viral on rumor wings, while we gear up our earthborn heroes and lead them out under their rulers’ command. let them scope out a prime spot where they can squash any insurrection from within and fend off enemies who, like wolves, might roll in from outside; there, let them set up camp, and once they’ve dropped their tents, let them throw sacrifices to the proper gods and get their cribs ready.

exactly, he said.

and their cribs gotta be built to block off the winter chills and the summer scorch.

i guess you’re talking houses, he replied.

yeah, i said; but these have gotta be soldier cribs, not some shopkeeper’s joint.

“what’s the diff?” he asked.

i’ll break it down, i replied. keeping watchdogs around who, ‘cause they’re lacking discipline, starving, or stuck in some bad habits, turn on the flock and cause chaos – acting less like obedient dogs and more like wild wolves – would be super vile for a shepherd.

that’s straight-up monstrous, he said.

so, we’ve gotta make sure our backup squad, even though they’re stronger than our regular peeps, don’t end up growing too big for them and turning into savage tyrants instead of being friends and allies.

yep, mad precautions needed.

and wouldn’t a dope, real-deal education be the ultimate safeguard?

but they’re already hella educated, he replied.

i can’t be so sure, my dear glaucon, i said; i’m way more convinced that they should be, and that true education – whatever that really means – is the sickest way to civilize and humanize them in how they vibe with each other and those under their protection.

facts, he replied.

and not just their schooling, but their cribs and everything about their setup should be designed so as not to mess with their guardian virtue or tempt them to flex on other citizens. any smart dude knows that.

no doubt.

so, let’s peep what their lifestyle’s gonna be if they fully embody our idea. first off, none of them should own extra property – only the bare essentials; no private cribs or secret stashes locked off from others; their gear should only be what’s necessary for trained warriors – dudes known for keeping it cool and courageous; they gotta agree to take a fixed paycheck from the citizens, just enough to cover the yearly expenses and nothing extra; and they’ll be rolling together, living like soldiers in a camp.

we’ll tell ‘em that gold and silver are like gifts from god – that the divine metal already flows within them, so they don’t need the extra dross that circulates among regular folks; they shouldn’t pollute their divine essence with that common trash metal, ‘cause that basic metal has sparked a ton of shady moves, while their own vibe stays pure. in fact, they alone, out of all the citizens, aren’t allowed to touch, share a roof with, wear, or even sip from gold or silver. and that, fam, is their salvation – making them the ultimate state saviors.

but if they ever start stacking up their own houses, lands, or cash, they flip the script from guardians to domestics – becoming housekeepers or farmers instead of true guardians, turning into enemies and tyrants rather than being solid allies; they’ll be hating and being hated, scheming and getting schemed against, and spend their whole lives more terrified of internal beef than external threats, and then the ruin – for both them and the whole state – will drop hard.

so, considering all that, can we say our state should be set up like this, with these rules we drop for guardians about their cribs and all their affairs?

yep, said glaucon.
