book iv.

here adeimantus piped up with a question: “how would you reply, socrates, if someone came up and said you’re making these peeps miserable, and that they’re the ones causing their own bad vibes; like, the city is totally theirs but they ain’t any better off for it; while other dudes are out here stacking lands, building huge, flashy cribs, and flexing on everyone with top-tier sacrifices to the gods and next-level hospitality; plus, as you mentioned, they got gold and silver and all that primo fortune swag; but our poor citizens? they’re basically just mercenaries parked in the city, always on guard duty?”

yeah, i was like, and you can lowkey add that these peeps just get fed – no extra coin dropped on them like the other dudes; so they literally can’t, even if they wanted, go on a chill vacay for fun – they got zero cash to flex on a bae or any boujee treat that the world calls “happiness”; and, fr, there’s a whole extra load of shade we could throw in the same lane.

but, he was like, let’s assume all that tea is already in the charge.

you tryna ask, i said, what’s our clapback?

yeah.

if we stick to the OG trail, i was like, we’re gonna scoop up the answer. and our answer? even as is, our guardians could literally be the happiest squad ever; but our whole mission in building the state was never to over-hype one class’s feelz, but to max out the overall good vibes for everyone. we figured that in a state set up for squad goals, justice would be the norm, and in a state that’s all over the place, you get injustice; and once we peep both, we can decide which vibe is actually happier. right now, i’m thinking we’re crafting this happy state as one big, unified flex – not just patching up a few happy peeps – and later on, we’ll scope out the totally flipped vibe of an unchill state.

imagine we’re spray-painting a statue and some random comes up like, “yo, why you not droppin’ the dopest colors on the sickest parts of the body? the eyes should be lit up in purple, but you left ‘em all black!” and we’d be like, “sir, you wouldn’t have us overdo the eyes ‘til they ain’t even eyes anymore, bro; think about if balancing all the features on fleek makes the whole piece fire.”

so i’m like, don’t force us to slap on a kind of happiness on our guardians that would flip them into anything but, well, guardians; ‘cause we can totally deck our farmhands in royal drip, crown ‘em with gold, and let them hustle till they drop – and that’s it. our potters? they can chill on couches, kick it by the fire, passing around the wine like it’s trending, with their wheel always on standby, grinding on pottery as hard or as chill as they feel. this way, every squad gets their vibe, and then, as you’d expect, the whole state goes full happy mode.

but yo, don’t let that idea seep into us; ‘cause if we vibe with that, our farmhands won’t be real farmhands, the potters will stop being potters, and no one will rock a distinct class rep in the state. sure, that’s not a big mood when only the sneaky, fake-on-the-inside cobblers are messin’ with it; but when the true law-keepers and government homies turn out to be phony guardians, then watch how they flip the whole state upside down – even though they’re the only ones who can really serve up order and good vibes.

we meant our guardians to be legit saviors, not the state’s ultimate clout destroyers, while our hater is picturing festival peasants just living it up instead of citizens grindin’ for the state. if that’s what he’s on about, then we’re talkin’ different things – he’s hyping something that ain’t even a real state. so we gotta peep whether in picking our guardians we focus on their individual glow-up or if the real happy energy lives in the state as a total squad. and if it’s the latter, then our guardians, aides, and every squad member need to be hyped or even forced to crush their own roles flawlessly. that way, the entire state vibes up in a noble, orderly flex, with every class getting the perfect share of happiness that nature’s all about.

i’m totally with you on that.

i wonder, though, if you’re cool with another spicy take that just hit my mind.

what’s that vibe?

apparently, there are two main reasons the arts get all sus and start to decline.

and what are they?

it’s all about wealth, i said, and straight-up poverty.

so how do they roll?

here’s the tea: when a potter gets loaded, do you think he’ll still be sweating the small deets on his art?

nah, fr.

he’s just gonna get more and more lazy and slack, right?

preach.

and that means he turns into a majorly wack potter?

yes, he totally levels down.

but then, flip side, if he’s broke and can’t even cop the proper tools, he won’t be able to grind properly himself, nor will he school his sons or apprentices on how to slay the craft.

definitely not.

so whether you’re swimming in cash or stuck in poverty, both the dude and his work are doomed to get worse, no cap.

facts.

so here we uncover some fresh toxic vibes that our guardians gotta watch out for, ‘cause if not, these evils might just roll into our city on the down-low.

which evils, you ask?

wealth, i said, and poverty; one spawns baller luxury and mad laziness, and the other breeds stinginess and pure nastiness – and both churn out mad discontent.

that’s hella true, he replied; but still, socrates, how’s our city gonna flex in a war, especially against a rich, powerhouse enemy, if we’re missing the muscle for war?

there’d definitely be a struggle, i replied, going up against one such beast; but honestly, it’s not a problem if you’ve got two.

how’s that work? he asked.

first off, i said, if we gotta throw down, our squad is loaded with trained warriors taking on an army of rich bros.

true that, he said.

and don’t you reckon, adeimantus, that a one-man boxing legend who’s on point would totally take on two chunky, well-off dudes who aren’t even boxers?

nah, if they ambush him all at once.

but then, i said, what if that legend can dip, then spin back and hit the first dude? and if he keeps doing that a few times under a blazing sun, wouldn’t he, as an absolute pro, take down more than one chonky guy?

sure, he said – nothing surprising there.

yet, real talk, rich dudes probably flex more in the art of boxing than they do with military hustle.

likely.

so we might assume our athletes could wreck two or even three times their own squad size?

i’m with you; that totally makes sense.

and picture this: before any throwdown, our citizens send an envoy to one of the two cities saying, “here’s the real tea: we don’t have silver or gold nor are we allowed to, but you can – so slide through, help us in war, and scoop up the spoils from the other city.” now, who in their right mind would wanna square up against scrappy, lean mutts rather than, with the dogs on their side, going up against some chubby, tender sheep?

that’s not likely; but still, there might be mad risk for a poor state if the riches of a bunch of states get piled into one.

but damn, it’s wild how you drop the term “state” for any squad that isn’t even ours!

why’s that?

you gotta call other states by their proper plural, fam; none of them are just one city, but a whole mix of cities, like they always say in the game. like, any city, however tiny, is basically split into two – one side for the poor and one for the rich – and they’re constantly beefing; plus, within each, there are heaps of mini-squads, so you’d be way off if you lumped them all as one state. but if you handle them as a spread, sharing wealth, power, or even people from one to another, you always end up with mad allies, not a truckload of enemies. and your state, while keeping that wise order we just laid out, will be the dopest of states – not just in clout or looks, but in real action and truth, even if she’s only got like a thousand hardcore defenders. finding a state equal to hers? good luck, whether among hellenes or barbarians – even if some look huge on paper, they don’t really stack up.

that’s straight facts, he said.

and then i asked, what’s the ultimate cap for our rulers when sizing up the state – like, how big can it get before they draw the line?

what limit you suggest?

i’d say let the state grow only as far as keeping the squad united – that’s the real move.

mad props, he said.

so then, here’s another boss command for our guardians: let our city be seen as neither extra large nor tiny, but as one solid, self-sufficient unit.

and for real, he said, that ain’t a harsh command at all.

and then, i added, the other vibe we dropped earlier is even lighter – i mean, the duty to downgrade the offspring of guardians when they’re low-key trash, and to level up the lower-class kids into guardian status when they got that natural drip. the plan was that for the citizens in general, everyone should be put to work doing exactly what nature intended for them – one-to-one, so every dude handles his own hustle, keeping it one and not many; and then the whole city vibes as one solid entity, not a scattered crew.

yeah, he said; that’s not a crazy ask.

the rules we’re laying down, my good adeimantus, ain’t a load of grand, complicated doctrines – they’re just little tweaks, as long as you keep your eye on the one major vibe – a vibe i’d rather call not massive, but totally sufficient for our game plan.

and what’s that, you ask?

education and total glow-up nurture, i said: if our citizens get a sick education and level up into sensible peeps, they’ll easily navigate all this tea – plus other stuff i’m not even dropping here, like marriage, locking down a bae, and reppin’ the fam by procreating – all sticking to that universal rule that friends share all the deets, like the old proverb goes.

that’s the ultimate move, for sure.

also, i said, when a state kicks off right, it builds unstoppable momentum like a rolling wheel. good nourishment and education lay down a dope foundation, and as that foundation sinks in, it only levels up more – and that upgrade spreads through the human squad just like it does in other creatures.

you got that, he said.

so here’s the 411: our rulers need to be all about keeping music and gymnastic vibes in their OG form – no remixing allowed. they gotta hustle to keep ’em intact. and whenever someone starts chirping about “the newest jam the singers dropped,” they’d be trippin’, ‘cause that might be hyping a new kind of song; and that’s not something to get hype about or call the poet’s ultimate drop. any new musical remix is hella dangerous for the entire state, and should be banned. so damon told me, and tbh, i’m down with him – he says that when music modes switch up, the core laws of the state always flip too.

yeah, said adeimantus; and you can add my vote to damon’s and yours.

so then, i asked, should our guardians lay down the foundation of their fortress on a vibe of music?

yeah, he said; ‘cause the chaos you mentioned creeps in on that front way too smooth.

exactly, i replied – starting off as harmless fun, but then it trickles in.

true, he said, and there ain’t any harm at first; but bit by bit, that wild spirit gets cozy, sneaks into our everyday manners and customs; then it starts wrecking contracts between peeps, and soon it’s crashing laws and constitutions, ending up, socrates, with a total overthrow of all rights – personal and public.

for real? i asked.

that’s my vibe, he replied.

so then, as i was saying, our youth need to be trained from day one in a super strict system – ‘cause if fun turns into total lawless madness, the youngsters can never grow into chill, virtuous citizens.

deadass true, he said.

and when they kick off with some solid playtime, and with music helping them get that order habit, that order becomes their jam in everything they do – a total glow-up that lifts them up, and if there are any sketchy zones in the state, it raises them right back up.

mad true, he said.

if they get educated like that, they’ll even come up with their own minor rules to fill in the gaps that the old squad totally ghosted.

what you mean?

i mean stuff like this: – when the young should stay silent for their elders; how to show respect by standing up and letting them sit; what honor is due to your parents; what fits you should rock – clothes or kicks; how to style your hair; proper vibes and manners overall. you feel me?

yeah.

but like, i think there’s little wisdom in micromanaging those deets by law – i doubt anyone’s ever really locked down those specifics; and any tight written rules on that are never gonna stick.

impossible.

it seems, adeimantus, that the direction education sets a dude on totally maps out his future vibe. like attracts like, right?

definitely.

until some rare, epic result pops off that might flip the script?

no cap, true.

so for that reason, i’m not gonna get all up in legislating more on those minor things.

naturally, he replied.

alright, and what about the whole hustle of the agora – the everyday dealings between peeps, or agreements with artisans; like, when peeps get dissed or injured, how lawsuits kick off, or how juries are picked – what’s your take? there could also be questions on market or harbor fees, and the overall house rules for markets, police, docks, and all that jazz. but yo, are we really gonna stoop to micromanaging all these tiny deets?

i think, he said, that good peeps don’t need strict laws for these vibes; they’ll naturally figure out the right rules soon enough.

yeah, i said, my dude, if god only keeps slapping down the laws we set for them.

and without divine backup, said adeimantus, they’ll keep forever tweaking their laws and hustling for perfection.

you’d compare them, i said, to those wannabe invalids who never quit their bad habits of overindulgence?

exactly.

yeah, i replied; and what a wild life they lead! they’re always overhauling, complicating, and beefing up their messy lives, totally convinced some magic fix or miracle cure will sort them out if they just try another gimmick.

these kinds of cases are super common, he said, with those types.

for real, i replied; and the crazy part is, they end up hating the dude who tells them the truth – that unless they ditch the whole eating, drinking, wenching, and chilling routine, no drug, spell, amulet, or whatever remedy is gonna cut it.

charming, he replied. i mean, i see zero charm in getting all heated with someone who’s just calling it like it is.

and these guys, i said, clearly ain’t in your good books.

assuredly not.

nor would you give props to states acting like the clout-chasing dudes i just roasted? ‘cause aren’t there totally wack states where citizens get straight-up banned – under penalty of death – from switching up the constitution; yet the dude who sweet-talks and spoils those living under that vibe, predicting and catering to their moods, is hailed as a dope statesman? don’t those states legit mirror the types i was just dissing?

yeah, he said; those states are as trash as the peeps running them, and i’m not here to give them any props.

but don’t you vibe with the smooth, slick moves of those quick-change ministers of political corruption?

yeah, he said, i do – but not all of them, ‘cause some get so hyped by the crowd they straight-up believe they’re real statesmen, and those ain’t really worth the clout.

what you mean? i said; you should feel more for them. when a dude can’t measure up, and a bunch of others who can’t measure also claim he’s like four cubits tall, can he even help but buy into that hype?

nah, he said, definitely not.

well, then, don’t even trip on them; ‘cause they’re as entertaining as a play, fumbling through weak reforms like the ones i was just dishing on – they’re always thinking that strict laws will end frauds in contracts and all the other shady biz i mentioned, not knowing they’re basically chopping off heads on a hydra.

yeah, he said; that’s exactly what they’re doing.

i figure that a true legislator isn’t gonna waste time with this mess of petty laws, whether in a chaotic state or one that’s on point; ‘cause in a messy state they’re useless, and in a tight state they’ll just flow naturally out of the main vibe we already set.

so what’s left for us when it comes to legislation?

nothing for us, i replied; but for apollo – the god of delphi – there’s still the major work of ordering the biggest, noblest, most epic stuff of all.

and what’s that? he asked.

the setup of temples and sacrifices, the full-on service of gods, demigods, and heroes; plus, sorting out the resting spots for the dead and the rituals for pleasing the homies in the underworld. these are things we don’t even have the lowkey 411 on ourselves, so as founders of a city, we’d be super sus trusting them to anyone but our OG deity. he’s the one who chills in the center, at the earth’s navel, and he’s the ultimate interpreter of all things religious for humankind.

you’re right, and we’ll roll with that plan.

but yo, amid all this, where’s justice? ariston’s son, drop the deets. now that our city’s been leveled up into a livable flex, light a candle and peep around – bring your bro, polemarchus, and the rest of the crew – and let’s hunt down where justice is hiding and where the shade of injustice lurks, how they differ, and which vibe a truly happy person should be rocking, whether the gods and peeps see it or not.

nonsense, said glaucon: didn’t you promise to get on the case yourself, saying that not helping justice when she’s in need would be straight-up impious?

i ain’t denying i said that, and now that you reminded me, i’m gonna stick to my word – but you gotta squad up too.

we will, he replied.

alright then, here’s my plan to crack this case: i’m gonna start with the idea that our state, if it’s set up right, is totally perfect.

no doubt about it.

and being perfect, it’s automatically wise, brave, chill, and just.

that’s crystal.

and whichever of these fly virtues we spot in the state, the one that’s missing is basically the leftover piece?

exactly.

if there were four things and we were on the hunt for one, wherever it might be, we’d know it right off, and there’d be no extra drama; or we could spot the other three first, and then the missing one is clearly the one that’s left.

spot on, he said.

and shouldn’t we use a similar plan for the virtues, which are, like, four in number too?

for sure.

first up among the state’s vibes is wisdom – and in that, i peep a quirky twist.

what’s the twist?

the state we described is said to be wise ‘cause it’s solid in dishing out good advice, right?

deadass true.

and good advice is basically a type of knowledge – ‘cause peeps don’t drop quality counsel out of ignorance, they do it with know-how.

obviously.

and there’s hella types of knowledge in a state?

of course.

you got the carpenter’s know-how; but is that the kind of knowledge that makes a city be called “wise” and killer at advice?

exactly.

def not; that would only give the city a rep for being lit at woodwork, no cap.

so, a city ain't automatically clouted as wise just 'cause it knows all the hacks on wooden gear?

def not.

and like, not 'cause it's got the lowkey scoop on bronze pots or any other similar flex, i was like?

nah, he replied, not for any of that tea.

and not just for being woke about farming either; that'd only tag the city as a straight-up farmstead, right?

yup.

so i was like, but is there any sick knowledge in our freshly minted state that drops wisdom not just on one part, but on the whole vibe—like how to manage itself and squad with other states?

for sure there is.

and what’s this knowledge, and who’s flexing it? i asked.

it's that guardian drip, he replied, and it's found among the absolute bosses we just vibe-called the perfect guardians.

so what do we call the city when it's packing that next-level wisdom flex?

it's named for its boss-level counsel game and its genuine wise vibes.

and in our state, will we ball with more of these top-tier guardians, or will the grind be mostly smiths?

he was like, nah fam—the smiths will be on deck in way higher numbers.

so like, the guardians won't be the tiniest crew among the squads known for a dope knowledge flex, right?

on point, they’re the micro squad.

so basically, even though they’re the littlest clique, this crew’s boss-level brain game rules the state, and that’s the only knowledge actually lit enough to be called wisdom—by nature’s decree, always the smallest squad in the lineup.

facts, straight up.

i was like, so that nails down one of the four key virtues in the state, fr fr.

he hit back, like, "totally, and in my humble opinion, that's bomb discovered."

then i was like, also, we can spot that dope vibe called courage, and zero cap on which part is rocking that valiant energy that makes a state hella brave.

like, what exactly u mean?

i was like, everyone who's dissing or hyping a state on bravery is eyeballing the squad that goes out there in the trenches fighting for the state.

he clapped back, "for real, no one else even gets it."

like, the other peeps might be brave or jinxed, but their vibes ain't gonna flip the state's rep to either brave af or total wimps, i reckon.

def not.

the state's brave vibe comes from that clique which, no matter the tea—be it pleasure or pain, desire or fear—keeps the legit, pre-trained views on what’s scary and what isn’t, just as the law schooled them; and that's what we call courage.

i need you to spill those deets again, cuz i ain't totally catching your drift.

i mean, courage is like a total save—a legit soul rescue.

save what though?

it's the save for keeping it 100 on what’s worth fearing and what isn’t—the opinion the law dropped in our education—and when i say "under all circumstances," i mean that whether you're riding high on pleasure or feeling the pain, chasing clout or ghosted by fear, you gotta stick to that lit perspective. wanna peep an example?

bet, spill it.

so, you know how dyers, when they're about to flex that true sea-purple on wool, first hunt down the pure white? they prep that base with mad care so it can fully rock the purple hue. then the dye game goes on, and whatever gets dipped this way stays forever fire—no matter how many washes with crazy chemicals hit it. but if the base isn't prepped right, you'll notice the purple (or any other color) ends up looking totally washed-out and sus.

he was like, "facts, i know it ends up all washed-out and kinda cringe."

then i was like, so now you get why we picked our soldiers and schooled them in beats and body moves; we were out here brewing up vibes to help them absorb the laws' dye like pure perfection, locking in their stance on danger and every other deets so no wild pleasure (which can wash out the soul harder than any chemical) or deep sorrow, fear, and desire—the ultimate soul solvents—can ever fade their drip. this universal power to keep true opinions on real and fake dangers aligned with the law? that's what i call courage, unless you lowkey disagree.

but he was like, "i vibe with you—you're excluding that clueless, raw courage of a wild beast or a slave; that ain't the kind of courage the law wants, and it should def get a different name."

definitely.

so can i read it as: courage is exactly what you just described?

i was like, "yeah, for real—and if you add 'of a citizen,' that's basically on point; anyway, later we can deep dive further, but right now we ain't hunting for more courage, we're locking in on justice; we've dropped enough tea on courage for now."

he shot back, "facts, you're right."

so, two more vibes gotta be uncovered in the state—first, temperance, and then justice, which is the ultimate finish-line we're chasing.

big facts.

but yo, can we spot justice without even peeping temperance?

he was like, "idk how that would even work, and i ain't about seeing justice shine if temperance gets ghosted; so do me a solid and let's scope temperance first."

i was like, "bet, i would never ghost your request."

then he said, "dude, think on it."

i replied, "aight, i'll do it; and from what i see, temperance is basically like that vibe of perfect harmony—a full-on symphony—compared to the earlier virtue."

he was like, "how so?"

i replied, "temperance is all about flexing control over your pleasures and cravings; it’s totally what they mean when they drop 'a man being his own master,' and you see that notion echoed all over our chats."

he was like, "no doubt, fam."

i mean, the whole 'master of himself' vibe is kinda sus, bc like, the boss can also be the sidekick and vice versa; essentially, it's all the same person in different roles.

facts.

basically, i believe it means that in our soul, there's a dope part and a not-so-dope part; and if the dope part runs the show and keeps the lame part in check, you're your own boss—major props. but if shady influences let the lame part take over, then you're labeled a total self-slave and lowkey unprincipled.

facts, that totally makes sense.

i was like, "peep our brand new state—and you'll see that vibe in action; the state should be seen as its own boss if 'temperance' and 'self-mastery' mean that the dope side is running the show."

he replied, "facts, i see that, word."

plus, note that all those layered pleasures, wild desires, and deep pains tend to be packed in kiddos, women, servants, and the so-called freemen—the lowest, most numerous crew.

he was like, "def, no cap."

whereas those chill, balanced cravings that roll with reason and are guided by real smarts, are only rocked by a few—the crème de la crème who are born and schooled right.

big facts, for real.

so, as you can peep, these two vibes have their spot in our state; while the basic, lowkey cravings of the masses get kept in check by the boss-level vibes of the elite few.

he was like, "i vibe, gotcha."

so if there's any city that can be called the ultimate boss of its own pleasures and vibes, do you think ours can flex that title?

he replied, "definitely, fam."

it could also be dubbed temperate, for the same lit reasons?

yeah, no doubt.

and if there's any state where the bosses and the squad agree on who should rule, then that's our vibe too, right?

undoubtedly.

and if all the peeps are vibing on that, then which crew gets to rock the temperance drip—the rulers or the homies?

he replied, "i’d say it's in both squads, straight up."

do you peep that our guess about temperance being like a dope harmony was spot on?

"why's that, though?"

"because, duh, unlike courage and wisdom—which are locked to specific crews (one making the state smart, the other making it bold)—temperance vibes across the whole squad. it runs through every note of the scale, creating a chill harmony between the weak, the strong, and the in-betweens, whether they're droppin' fire wisdom, beast mode strength, stacked numbers, or heavy clout. so basically, temperance is the truce between the naturally extra and the not-so-extra, about who gets to call the shots—both in states and in individuals."

i’m straight up with you on that.

so, i said, we can clock three outta the four major virtues in our state. the last essential vibe that makes a state virtuous has gotta be justice—if only we knew what that was exactly.

obviously, fam.

so now, glaucon, it's time we go full hunter mode, circle the area, and keep our eyes peeled so justice doesn't yeet away into the shadows; for real, she’s somewhere in this land. so stay woke and let me know if you spot her first, aight?

would love to, but you gotta know i'm more a ride-or-die follower with just enough eyeballs to catch your drip—that's pretty much my clout.

drop a prayer with me and then tag along.

i got you, but you gotta lead the way, fam.

i was like, "there's no lit path here—the wood's dark and hella perplexing—but we gotta slide forward regardless."

let's yeet forward.

yo, check it—I spotted something: "hallo!" i was like, "i see a trail, and i bet the quarry ain't about to ghost us."

he was like, "good vibes, bet!"

i was like, "real talk, we’re such stupid clowns, man."

"why tho?"

"bro, at the start of our quest ages ago, justice was straight-up tumbling at our feet and we totally missed her—like, nothing could be more ridiculous. it was like peeps looking for the stuff already in their hands; we were checking out some far-off hype and ended up missing what was right under us."

"what's your drift?"

"i mean, for real, we've been yapping about justice for ages without even recognizing that she was vibing with us."

"man, i'm lowkey exhausted by your long-winded intro."

so i said, "tell me if i'm off: remember the OG rule we laid down when building this state—that each person should stick to the one thing that suits their natural vibe? now, justice is basically that principle or at least a slice of it."

he was like, "yeah, we always said a dude should just do his own thing."

and we also confirmed that justice means minding your own biz and not being a nosy parker; we dropped that truth bomb over and over, and loads of peeps hit us with the same vibe.

facts, that's what we said.

so if you're just doing your own thing the right way, that's like justice. can you tell me how i pulled that inference?

i ain't sure, but i'd love a deets drop.

'cause i reckon this is the only vibe that remains in the state once you peel away temperance, courage, and wisdom; it's like the ultimate catalyst that holds them all together—a preservative that keeps every other virtue in check. and like we said, if we discovered three, then justice is the fourth, the final piece.

that follows, no cap.

if we're asked which of these four qualities boosts the state's excellence the most—whether it's the unity between rulers and subjects, the soldiers holding tight to the law's take on what’s truly dangerous, the wise and watchful rulers, or even that quality seen in kiddos, women, slaves, freemen, artisans, rulers, and subjects—basically, everyone just doing their own grind instead of being a meddling busybody, then that vibe would snatch the crown; it's not an easy call.

he replied, "def, it's kinda tough to pinpoint which one."

so like, each individual’s power to stick to their own hustle is in a showdown with the other political vibes—wisdom, temperance, and courage.

he said, "yeah, true."

and the vibe that’s in this collab is justice?

exactly, no cap.

let's flip the script: aren't the rulers the ones you'd trust to drop verdicts when sorting out legal beefs?

definitely.

and legal cases are all about making sure no dude snatches someone else's stash or gets jacked of his own, right?

yep, that's the whole deal.

so that's a just principle?

yes.

so looking at it this way, justice is basically about having and doing what's rightfully yours, no cap?

fact, very true.

now check this: say a carpenter goes off doing a cobbler's hustle, or a cobbler flips into carpentry; or they swap tools or roles, or one dude ends up doubling up—do you think that mix-up would cause major drama for the state?

nah, not really.

but when a cobbler—or any dude naturally built to be a trader, hyped up on cash, clout, or squad size—tries to crash the warrior crew, or a warrior slides into the legislator/guardian gig they're totally not built for, swapping tools or duties, or when one dude ends up as trader, lawmaker, and warrior all in one chaotic mashup, then yo, you'll definitely agree that this role-swap and meddling spells the ruin for the state.

most true, straight up.

so i was like, "seeing as we've got three clear squads, any messing around—one crashing into another, or switching roles—is the biggest glitch to the state; it’s pure evil-doing."

"precisely, fam."

and the worst burn to your own city, you'd call that straight-up injustice, right?

definitely.

so that's injustice; but on the flip side, when the trader, the auxiliary, and the guardian all stick to their own gigs, that's pure justice—and that’s what makes the city just.

i vibe with that.

i said, "we're not gonna jump to conclusions yet; but if, on testing, this concept of justice checks out in both individuals and the state, then there won't be any room for doubt. if it doesn’t, we gotta reboot our investigation. remember, we started by examining justice on a macro scale (the state) thinking it’d be easier to spot than in a single person. we built our state as tight as possible, knowing that a good state would flex justice. now, let’s apply that discovery to the individual—if they vibe, we're golden; if not, we'll circle back to the state and re-test the theory. maybe the friction between the two will spark a light where justice shines bright, and that vision will be locked in our souls."

that's totally in the works; let's roll with your plan, fam.

then i asked, "when two things—a big one and a small one—are called the same, are they seriously alike or not?"

he replied, "like, yes, they're basically similar."

so a just person, if we just think about the idea of justice, is he basically like the just state?

he will, for sure.

and we figured a state is just when each of the three squads handles their own grind; plus, it's seen as temperate, valiant, and wise because of the extra vibes those same squads bring.

he said, "true, no cap."

so for an individual, we can assume they've got the same three core vibes in their own soul as the state; and they can be described in the same way, since they're on the same wavelength, right?

definitely, he said.

again, my dude, we've landed on an easy question—does the soul even have these three core principles or nah?

an easy question? nah fam, as Socrates would say, "hard is the good."

big facts, i said; and i don't think our current method is enough to fully break down this question—the real method has to be a different, longer grind. still, we can hit a solution that's at least as solid as our last deep dive.

he said, "can't we just roll with that? under these vibes, i'm totally chill with that."

"same here, i’m hella satisfied with that, bro."

then he said, "don’t dip out on this deep convo; keep grinding on the speculation."

i said, "aren't we all made of the same vibes and habits that fuel the state? like, how else do they even get there? think about passion or spirit—it’d be wild to imagine that when you spot that fire quality in states, it doesn’t come from the individuals, like the Thracians, the Scythians, and generally the whole northern squad. same goes for the love of knowledge—which is our region’s signature vibe—or even the love of cash, seen just as much among the Phoenicians and Egyptians."

"exactly so," he replied.

this is totally obvious, no cap.

none whatsoever.

but here’s the kicker—it gets messy when we ask if these principles are really three separate vibes or just one. like, do we learn with one part of our nature, get heated with another, and have a third part chase our natural cravings; or is the whole soul in play every single time? that’s the real struggle.

he said, "yes, there lies the difficulty."

so let's now try to figure out if they're one and the same vibe or totally different.

he asked, "how do we even do that?"

i replied, "look, the same thing can't be doing double duty—like, acting and being acted on in totally opposite ways in the same spot and time. so whenever you spot that contradiction in something that’s supposedly the same, it's a dead giveaway they're really different."

"good, bet."

for example, i said, "can one thing be chillin' and moving all at once, in the exact same part?"

"impossible, no cap."

still, i said, "let's get our terms straight so we don't end up in a beef later. picture a dude who's standing but also waving his hands and bobbing his head; and if someone claims he's both in motion and totally still at the same moment, we'd call that out and say, 'nah, one part's on the move while another's parked.'"

very true.

so check it: if the objector decides to flex even harder and drop the sick diff that not only parts of tops but whole tops—when they spin with their pegs locked in place—are both totally chillin’ and on the move at the same time (and he might legit say the same about anything that spins in that same spot), then nah fam, we ain’t buying that objection. in that sitch, stuff ain’t vibin’ as both at rest and on the move in the same spots; we’d rather say they rock both an axis and a rim, where the axis is straight-up parked (no deviation, perp on fleek) and the rim is busy going round and round. but yo, if during that whirl the axis starts leanin’ right or left, forward or backward, then there’s literally no angle where they can be considered chill.

“that’s how you do it right,” he clapped back.

so none of these extra drama objections will have us shook into thinking that the same thing—at the same moment, in the same spot, or in relation to the same vibe—can both act and be acted on in totally opposite ways.

“def not, in my honest opinion, no cap.”

yet, i said, so we don’t gotta break our brains over every lame counter-argument and prove they’re bogus. let’s just assume they’re straight-up absurd and roll with it, knowing that if this assumption later gets canceled, we can yeet all the follow-up consequences.

“bet, that’s the move,” he said.

alright fam, don’t you think that assent and dissent, desire and aversion, attraction and repulsion—all these are just opposites, whether they’re actively flexin’ or chillin’ passively?

“yeet, they’re straight-up opposites,” he confirmed.

and also, hunger and thirst, and all those crave vibes in general, plus the whole deal of willing and wishing—they’d all fall into those same squads we just mentioned. you’d basically say, right? that a soul that’s caught up in desire is low-key huntin’ for the object of its craving; or that it’s pullin’ in that dope thing it wants to possess; or even, when someone’s tryna get something handed to ‘em, their mind throws a nod like “yeah, sign me up,” as if answering a question.

“deadass.”

and what about the anti vibes—unwillingness, dislike, the total absence of desire? shouldn’t these fall under the squad of repulsion and rejection?

“for sure.”

so assuming we’re cool with that idea for desire overall, how ‘bout we pick a special squad of desires—like hunger and thirst, the most obvious OG ones?

“aight, let’s snag that squad,” he said.

so one’s flex is food and the other is drink, right?

“yep.”

now here’s the kicker: isn’t thirst just the soul’s basic crave for drink—and drink alone—without any extra sauce (like warm or cold, a lot or a little, or any specific vibe)? but if that thirst shows up with extra heat, then the crave flips to wanting cold drink; or if it’s chillin’ with cold, then it craves warm drink; or if it’s extra AF, then it wants mega sips; and if it’s low-key, then just a small gulp. pure, unfiltered thirst just wants straight-up drink—the natural satisfaction of thirst—just like ordinary hunger is all about food.

“deadass; a simple desire always vibes with a simple object, and a tricked-out desire rolls with a fancy object.”

but yo, here’s where things could get messy: i wanna block any haters from saying that no one craves just any drink—they only want “good drink,” or that no one just wants food—they demand bomb food instead. since “good” is like the universal flex object, a desire will automatically be craving good drink, and the same goes for every other crave.

“yeah, the opponent might drop some lines,” he replied.

anyway, i still stand that in relative terms, some things come with extra qualities on each side while others are just basic—with their matches equally basic.

“yo, i ain’t following that vibe.”

but obviously, the greater is always chillin’ next to the lesser, right?

“facts.”

and like, the mega greater is relative to the ultra less, right?

“def.”

and sometimes it’s the greater compared to the lesser, and even the future greater versus the future lesser?

“facts,” he said.

so it works for more and less, and all those matching terms like double versus half, heavier versus lighter, faster versus slower, hot versus cold, and pretty much all the other relatives. it’s the same deal all around, right?

“yup.”

and yo, ain’t the same rule apply in the sciences? like, the whole point of science is knowledge (if that’s the legit definition), but a specific branch of science is just a particular flavor of knowledge; for example, the science of house-building is its own flex and gets tagged as “architecture.”

“facts.”

because it’s got that one special drip that no other has?

“facts.”

and it’s that drip because its object is uniquely defined—and that goes for all the arts and sciences too, right?

“def.”

alright, so if you’re catchin’ these vibes, you get my original meaning about relatives: if one term of a relation is taken by itself, then the other is too; and if one gets all qualified, the other does as well. i’m not saying that relative terms can’t be totally different, or that the science of health is automatically healthy, or that disease is necessarily diseased, or that the sciences of good and evil are exactly good and evil; i’m just sayin’ that when “science” stops being an absolute term and starts targeting a specific vibe—in this case, the nature of health and disease—it gets defined and is then called not just science, but the science of medicine.

“i totally get it, and i vibe with you.”

so wouldn’t you say that thirst is one of these essentially relative vibes, clearly linked—

“yeah, thirst is all about drink.”

—and that a certain kind of thirst is paired with a certain kind of drink, but pure, unqualified thirst ain’t about being mega or minimal, gourmet or basic, or any specific type—it’s just about drink, plain and simple?

“facts.”

so the soul of someone who’s thirsty, as long as they’re in that crave mode, only wants drink—that’s the only thing they’re hustling for.

“straight up.”

and if you imagine something that pulls a thirsty soul away from drink, then that thing’s gotta be different from the raw, beastly pull of thirst that drags ‘em to guzzle; because, as we already said, the same vibe can’t both push and pull the same part in opposite ways at the same time.

“no way, fam.”

like, you can’t say the archer’s hands are both pushing and pulling the bow simultaneously—one hand’s on the push, and the other’s on the pull.

“preach,” he replied.

but yo, could a dude be thirsty and yet ghost on drinking?

“yup, that happens on the reg,” he said.

and in that sitch, wouldn’t you say there’s one part of the soul yelling “drink up” while another part is like, “nah bro, back off”—with the anti-drink vibe being stronger than the basic thirst pull?

“i’d say so, for sure.”

and that “nah, don’t” vibe comes from reason, while the “yes, please” pull comes straight from passion and even some inner dysfunction?

“clearly.”

so we can peep that there are two separate vibes, and they’re totally different; the one that rides on logic, we can call the rational principle of the soul, and the other—responsible for all that wild love, hunger, thirst, and fluttery desire—we’ll term the irrational or appetitive squad, the hype crew for all sorts of pleasures and satisfactions.

“yeah, we can totally say they’re different,” he agreed.

then let’s lock it in: there are two core principles in the soul. but what about passion, or spirit? is that a third vibe, or just a remix of desire?

“i’m inclined to say—it’s basically akin to desire.”

well, i said, there’s this story i remember and totally put faith in: leontius, the son of aglaion, was cruising up from the piraeus one day, chillin’ under the north wall on the outside, when he peeped a bunch of dead bodies lying around at an execution spot. he got hit with this wild mix of curiosity and major freak-out vibes; for a hot minute he tried to cover his eyes, but then his desire went full beast mode and he forced his lids open, sprinted over to the corpses, and shouted, “yo, ye wretches, feast your eyes on this lit scene!”

“i’ve heard that tale too,” he said.

the moral of the story? sometimes anger goes to war with desire, as if they were two totally different squads.

“facts; that’s the real meaning,” he said.

and honestly, aren’t there tons of times when a dude’s desires go so hard that they overthrow his reason, leaving him cursing himself and mad at the inner chaos? in that internal brawl—which is like a faction war inside a state—his spirit usually sides with reason. i mean, i’ve never seen that passionate element team up with desire when reason says “nah, back off,” and i doubt you’ve ever peeped that in yourself or anyone else.

“deadass, not ever.”

imagine a man thinks he did wrong to someone else; if he’s a high-key noble dude, he won’t even get all riled up about basic suffering like hunger, cold, or any other pain the other might dish out—he’s like, “that’s just how the world rolls,” and his anger won’t even spark.

“facts,” he said.

but when he feels like he’s the one getting wronged, then he starts boiling over, raging hard and aligning with what he believes is true justice; and as he suffers hunger, cold, or other pains, he just gets even more determined to fight, conquer, and level up. his noble spirit won’t chill until he either comes out on top or gets taken down—or until he hears the shepherd’s call (that is, reason) telling his pack to shut it down.

“that example is on point,” he replied, “and in our state, like we said, the auxiliaries were meant to be the watchdogs, listening up to the rulers—their shepherds.”

“i get you,” i said, “but listen up, there’s one more tea drop i want you to peep.”

“what’s up?”

remember how passion or spirit used to seem like just another type of desire? now, we gotta flip that and say, no fam—in the inner drama of the soul, spirit totally teams up with the rational vibe.

“most assuredly.”

but here’s another question: is passion totally different from reason, or is it just a flavor of reason? because if it’s just the latter, then the soul only rocks two vibes—the rational and the concupiscent. or maybe, like how the state has three squads (traders, auxiliaries, counsellors), there might be a third element in the individual soul—passion or spirit—that, when not messin’ with bad educations, naturally backs up reason?

“yep, there’s def a third,” he said.

“yes,” i replied, “if passion—which we already peeped as being different from desire—also stands apart from reason.”

and that’s easy to see: even toddlers are lit with spirit right from birth, while some never really level up to proper reasoning, or do so way later.

“excellent,” i said, “and you can see that same wild passion in straight-up brute animals—further proof that what you’re saying is on point.” and we can totally throw in homer’s words, which we already quoted:

  “he smote his breast, and thus rebuked his soul,”

‘cause in that line, homer clearly flexed that the brain which dissects the better from the worse is not the same as that unfiltered, raging anger which gets clapped down.

“very true,” he said.

so after all that tossing around, we’ve landed on the fact that the same core vibes in the state also roll in the individual—and they’re three in number.

“exactly.”

so shouldn’t we then conclude that an individual is wise in the same way, and because of that same lit quality that makes a state wise?

“certainly.”

and also, the same quality that pumps courage into the state pumps it into the individual too, and both the state and the individual share the same connection with all the other virtues?

“assuredly.”

and we’d be like, yup, the individual is just as just as the state itself, right?

“that follows, of course.”

let’s not forget that the justice of the state was all about each of its three squads sticking to their own hustle.

“we’re not likely to have forgotten that,” he said.

we must remember that an individual whose different inner qualities all do their own thing is, by definition, just—and handles his own business.

“yes, we gotta remember that too,” he agreed.

and shouldn’t the rational squad—which is wise and takes care of the whole soul—be in charge, while the passionate or spirited squad plays the role of the supportive homie?

“certainly.”

and like we said, the dope fusion of music and gym workouts will sync these vibes up—firing up reason with noble words and lessons, while calming, taming, and civilizing the wild beast of passion with harmony and rhythm.

“quite true,” he said.

and these two, once they’re all nurtured and educated and totally know their roles, will rule over the concupiscent squad—which, let’s be real, is the biggest, hungriest slice of our soul that’s never satisfied. they’ll keep that in check so that when the concupiscent soul, all hyped up on bodily pleasures, tries to break free and boss everyone around, it doesn’t flip the whole human vibe.

“very true,” he agreed.

together, won’t they be the ultimate defenders of the whole soul and body against outside haters—one dropping sage advice and the other throwing down in battle under its leader, fearlessly carrying out his orders?

“true.”

and a dude’s called courageous if his inner spirit holds tight to reason’s commands in both pleasure and pain, knowing exactly what he should or shouldn’t fear.

“right,” he replied.

and we call a person wise when that inner little boss speaks up—knowing what’s best for each of the three parts and for the whole vibe.

“assuredly.”

and wouldn’t you say that a man is temperate if all these elements are in friendly harmony—in which the ruling reason and the supporting spirit and desire all agree that reason should be the boss, without any rebel moves?

“certainly, that’s the true account of temperance in both the state and the individual,” he said.

and for real, i said, we’ve broken down again and again the quality that makes a man just.

“that is very certain.”

so, is justice any less lit in an individual, or does it come in a different flex, or is it exactly the same as we see in the state?

“there’s no difference in my opinion,” he said.

‘cause if any doubt’s still lurking, a few everyday examples will totally flex the truth of what i’m saying.

“what kinda examples you talkin’ about?”

if you ask us, isn’t it obvious that a just state—or a man trained in that vibe—is way less likely than an unjust one to yeet someone’s stash of gold or silver? would anyone even diss that?

“no one,” he replied.

and will a just dude or citizen ever be guilty of sacrilege, theft, or straight-up treachery against his friends or his country?

“never.”

nor will he ever break his word when he’s made oaths or agreements?

“impossible.”

and no one’s gonna commit adultery, disrespect their parents, or slack on their religious duties, right?

“no one.”

and that’s because every part of him is busy mindin’ its own business—whether it’s ruling or being ruled.

“exactly.”

so, are you down with the idea that the vibe that makes such men and states lit is justice, or are you lookin’ for another flavor?

“not i, indeed.”

then our dream is totally realized; that wild suspicion we had at the start—that some divine power steered us to the OG form of justice—is now straight-up verified.

“yes, certainly.”

and the whole division of labor—where the carpenter, the shoemaker, and all the citizens stay in their own lanes instead of messin’ with each other’s biz—was just a shadow of justice, and that’s why it was clutch.

“clearly.”

but in real talk, justice is exactly what we described—it’s not about the outward flex of a man, but about his inner core, the true self. a just man never lets his inner squads step on each other’s toes or do someone else’s grind. he straight-up organizes his inner life, becomes his own boss with his own rules, stays at peace with himself; and when he ties together the three inner principles—kind of like the high, low, and mid notes of his soul’s playlist, locked in perfect harmony—he’s no longer a messy mix but one fully tempered and finely tuned. then, when he’s gotta act—whether over property, body care, or in politics or personal biz—he always calls those moves that keep or boost this harmony “just and good,” naming them wisdom, and anything that messes with it he calls “unjust action,” with the vibe behind it labeled as pure ignorance.

“you spitted the absolute truth, socrates.”

mad props; and if we were to say we’ve uncovered the just man and the just state—and the very nature of justice in both—we wouldn’t be lying, right?

“most certainly not.”

so can we say it like that then?

“let’s say so.”

and now, i said, let’s dive into injustice.

“clearly.”

shouldn’t injustice be seen as that chaotic strife that goes down when the three inner squads start meddling with each other—interfering, stepping out of line, and rising up with unauthorized power moves, like a rebellious minion challenging the true boss of the soul? what’s all that confusion but pure injustice, mixed with intemperance, cowardice, ignorance, and every form of vice imaginable?

“exactly so.”

and if we know the low-key nature of justice and injustice, then what it means to act justly or unjustly should be crystal clear, right?

“what are you even saying?”

like, i said, they’re basically like disease and health—the way disease and health vibe in the body, justice and injustice vibe in the soul.

“how do you mean?”

cause, i said, the healthy stuff produces more health, and the unhealth stuff brings on disease.

“facts.”

and just moves cause justice, while wicked moves bring on injustice?

“that is certain.”

and just like the body hits peak health when its parts are all in natural order—and falls into disease when that order’s wrecked—the creation of justice is all about setting up that natural order in the soul, and injustice is when everything’s off-key.

“true.”

and isn’t virtue basically the health, beauty, and overall well-being of the soul, while vice is the sickness, weakness, and ugly mess that drags it down?

“yup.”

and don’t good vibes and habits lead to virtue, while bad ones push you into vice?

“assuredly.”



still our ancient debate about whether justice or injustice is the ultimate flex hasn’t been solved yet: is it more profitable to keep it 100—being straight-up, virtuous, and just, whether the gods and the squad are watching or not—or is it more baller to go full shady as long as you dodge the ban hammer and stay untaxed?

in my honest opinion, socrates, this whole question is straight-up ridiculous. like, when your physical bod is toast—even if you’re living luxuriously with all the gourmet eats, endless drip, and mad stacks—life becomes a total glitch; so can we really be told that if your inner vibe is completely wrecked, life is still worth riding out, as long as you’re free to do whatever chaos you want (except snagging virtue or ditching vice), assuming we’re talking about the same vibes we described?

yes, i said, the question is, as you put it, ridiculous. but since we’re literally this close to peeping the truth in all its clarity, let’s not bail on ourselves along the way.

“certainly not,” he replied.

“come on up here,” i said, “and peep all these different shades of vice—those extra shady flavors that are worth a double-take.”

“i’m right behind you,” he replied. “proceed.”

i said, “our convo’s now peaked like some high tower of deep thought where you can see that virtue is a one-of-a-kind vibe, while vice comes in endless remix versions—there are four extra dank types that totally deserve a shout-out.”

“what do you mean?” he asked.

“i mean,” i replied, “that it looks like the soul comes in as many vibes as there are types of states.”

“how many?”

“there are five flavors for the state, and five for the soul,” i said.

“what are they?”

“first up, it’s the one we’ve been dishing out—something that can be called either monarchy or aristocracy, depending on whether a single boss dude or a crew of legends is running the show.”

“true,” he replied.

“but i’m saying those two names are just two sides of the same coin; whether one guy or a bunch of them are calling the shots, as long as our leaders have been schooled the way we imagined, the core laws of the state stay solid.”

“that is true,” he replied.
