book v.

so like, the real and epic city (or state) is built on the same vibes as the genuinely lit human; if that’s on point, then every other model is sus af. the bad vibes aren’t just messing up the state’s setup—they’re totally clogging the individual soul too, and they show up in four extra shady forms.

“what are they?” he asked.

i was about to break down the order in which these four sketchy vibes roll out when polemarchus, chillin’ a little ways off, right past adeimantus, started lowkey whispering to him. he stretched out his hand, grabbed the top of his coat by the shoulder, pulled him in close, and murmured in his ear—i only caught, “shall we ghost him, or what’s the move?”

“certainly not,” said adeimantus, raising his voice.

“who is it,” i said, “that you’re not letting slide?”

“you,” he said.

i repeated, “why me? why am i the one who can’t catch a break?”

“because,” he said, “we lowkey think you’re being lazy and trying to cheat us out of a whole chapter that’s major tea in this story; and you act like your floaty, breezy vibe will let you skate by—as if it’s totally obvious that when it comes to women and kids, ‘friends have all things in common.’”

“and wasn’t i right, adeimantus?”

“yes,” he said, “but what’s right in this sitch, like everything else, has gotta be explained—since community comes in all flavors. so, tell us exactly what kind of community you’re vibing on. we’ve been waiting, like forever, for you to break down the family game of our citizens—how they’re gonna drop kids into the world and level ‘em up once they show, and basically, what the whole vibe is with this women-and-children community—because we’re convinced that how you manage that stuff flips the state for the better or the worse. and now that this question is still a hot mess, and you’re out here building another state, we’ve decided, as you heard, that we’re not letting you bounce until you drop all the deets.”

to that, glaucon said, “bet, consider me down with that resolution.”

“and without more ado,” said thrasymachus, “just know we’re all equally vibing with this.”

i said, “you have no clue what you’re doing attacking my flow—what insane lines are you throwing about the state?! i was so ready to wrap up this topic and was feeling hella blessed that you were all about my words, and then you hit me asking to rewind all the way back to the foundation—as if you didn’t stir up a whole hornet’s nest of words. i saw the drama coming from a mile away and dodged it.”

“for what purpose do you reckon we’re here,” said thrasymachus, “—to hunt for gold or to vibe with some deep discourse?”

“yes, but even the dopest convo should have some limits.”

“exactly, socrates,” said glaucon, “wise folks set life itself as the only real limit on listening to deep talks. but anyway, don’t worry about us; take heart and drop your own take: what kind of women-and-children community is gonna roll with our guardians? and how are we gonna handle that tricky stretch between birth and full-on education? dish out the deets.”

“yes, my simple friend, but the answer here is anything but a walk in the park; there are so many more doubts popping up than in our earlier convos. not only can we question if what we’re saying is even doable, but also whether it’d actually be the ultimate glow-up for the state. so i’m lowkey hesitant to jump in, afraid that our big dream might just turn out to be an epic meme.”

“fear not,” he replied, “your crew isn’t gonna roast you—they’re not here to throw shade or be hostile.”

“my good friend,” i said, “i guess you’re tryna hype me up with that talk.”

“yes,” he said.

“but let me be real—you’re doing the opposite of hyping me up. your encouragement would be lit if i already had my facts straight. dropping truth bombs about stuff mad important that we all revere among our wise squad shouldn’t come with doubt; but trying to argue when you’re just a hesitating enquirer—which is totally my vibe right now—is risky and mad slippery. and the danger isn’t even that i’ll get roasted (that’d be so kiddie), but that i might totally miss the truth when i need rock-solid footing, and then drag my homies down with me. i seriously hope nemesis doesn’t come through with savage comebacks on my words, cuz i lowkey believe that accidentally offing someone is a way lesser crime than being a faker when talking about beauty, goodness, or justice in the laws. and that’s a risk i’d rather take facing haters than my own squad—so props for the hype.”

glaucon laughed and said, “well then, socrates, if you and your argument ever seriously mess with us, consider yourself pre-cleared from any accidental homicide charges and no one’ll call you a faker; so get in there and spit your truth, bro.”

“well,” i said, “the law says that once a dude is acquitted he’s off the hook, and what’s solid in court should totally hold in our debate too.”

“then why stress?”

“well,” i replied, “i guess i gotta rewind and say what i should’ve dropped earlier in the right order. the bros’ part is wrapped, and now it’s time to spotlight the ladies. i’m ready to spill the tea, especially since y’all are hyping it up.”

for dudes born and schooled like our peeps, the only way, in my honest opinion, to nail the real story on handling and vibing with women and kids is to bounce back to our original blueprint—remember when we said the bros were gonna be the guardians and watchdogs of the herd?

“true.”

“now, let’s also assume that the birth and schooling of our ladies is run under similar—or near similar—rules; then we can see if the final drip matches our master plan.”

“what do you mean?”

“i mean,” i explained, “let’s put it like this: do dogs roll as strictly dudes and chicks, or do they both share the hustle equally when it comes to hunting, guarding, and all the other doggo duties? or do we just hand off all the herding and protection vibes to the male pups, leaving the females at home under the presumption that carrying and nursing puppies is enough work for them?”

“no,” he said, “they split the hustle; the only diff is that the male pups are beefier and the female pups are less buff.”

“but can you swap different animals for the same gig if they aren’t raised and fed the same way?”

“you totally can’t.”

“so, if the ladies are down for the same duties as the dudes, they gotta get the same nurturing and schooling, right?”

“yes.”

“and the schooling the dudes got was all about music and gym time.”

“yes.”

“so does that mean the ladies should also be schooled in music, gym, and even the art of war—doing it just like the bros?”

“that’s the inference, i guess.”

“i’d actually expect that some of our wild proposals, if pulled off, might look straight-up absurd.”

“no doubt of it.”

“yes, and the most ridiculous move of all would be peeping women going shirtless in the palaestra, working out with the dudes—especially when they aren’t exactly in their prime; they wouldn’t exactly be serving looks any more than those hyped old men who, even with wrinkles and less-than-fresh vibes, still hit the gymnasia.”

“yes, indeed,” he said, “by today’s standards, that idea would be totally cringe.”

“but then,” i said, “since we’re all about keeping it 100 and speaking our minds, we shouldn’t sweat the roast from the smart alecks who are gonna clap back about this innovation—talking smack about women’s skills in music and gym, and especially about them donning armour and riding horses like total badasses!”

“very true,” he replied.

“yet having started, we gotta slide into the real-deal, rough spots of the law—and straight-up ask these dudes, for once in their lives, to get serious. not long ago, as a throwback we’ll remind ‘em, the hellenes believed (and the barbarians still kinda do) that the sight of a naked dude was totally cringe and improper; and when the cretans and then the lacedaemonians first dropped that custom, even the brainy folks of the day would’ve roasted that new trend.”

“no doubt.”

“but when experience showed that letting everything hang open was way better than covering it up—and that the laughable exterior completely faded in the face of the smarter vibe of reason—then it was clear that a dude was just plain foolish if he aimed his savage roasts at anything other than obvious foolishness and vice, or if he tried judging beauty by any standard other than pure goodness.”

“very true,” he replied.

“so first, whether we’re clowning or getting serious, let’s break down the nature of woman: is she totally, partially, or not at all able to vibe with the same moves as men? and can she flex in the art of war at all? that’s the smartest way to kick off our inquiry, and it’ll probably lead us to the fairest truth.”

“that’s def the move.”

“shall we flip it and start by arguing against ourselves, so the opponents’ side isn’t left completely undefended?”

“why not?” he said.

“then let’s ghost a speech out of our opponents’ mouths. they’d be like: ‘socrates and glaucon, no haters need to call you out because, right from the jump, you admitted that everybody should stick to the hustle that vibes with their own nature.’ and honestly, we did say that. ‘and don’t men’s and women’s vibes differ madly, right?’ and we’d shoot back, ‘oh for sure, they do.’ then they’d ask, ‘shouldn’t the gigs assigned to men and women be different to suit those diff vibes?’ and of course, they should. ‘but if that’s the case, haven’t you totally contradicted yourselves by saying that men and women—whose vibes are totally diff—should perform the same moves?’ – so what defense are you gonna bring for us, my dude, against anyone throwing these objections?”

“that ain’t an easy question to answer on the fly; so i’m beggin’ you to help unpack our side.”

“these are the objections, glaucon, and there’s a bunch more of the same that i peeped ages ago—they made me mad nervous about drafting any law regarding the possession and schooling of women and children.”

“by zeus,” he said, “this problem is anything but easy.”

“yeah, i said, but when a dude’s in over his head—whether he’s splashing around in a kiddie pool or drowning in the middle of the ocean—he’s gotta keep swimming, no cap.”

“very true.”

“and aren’t we supposed to swim hard for the shore? maybe hope that arion’s dolphin or some other epic assist shows up to save our vibe?”

“i suppose so,” he said.

“well then, let’s see if there’s any escape route. didn’t we already agree that different vibes should chase diff hustles, and that men’s and women’s natures are, like, totally different? and now, what are we saying—are we claiming that different vibes should have the same gigs? that’s the inconsistency everyone’s throwing at us.”

“precisely.”

“yo, glaucon,” i said, “wild is the power of tossing out contradictions, no cap!”

“why u say that?” he asked.

“‘cuz i feel like so many dudes end up arguing even when they don’t mean to. they think they’re deep in reasoning, but they’re really just picking a fight—because they can’t even lock down what they’re talking about; they’re all about that petty verbal beef instead of a legit discussion.”

“yes,” he replied, “that happens way too often; but how does that plug into our debate?”

“a whole lot,” i said, “because there’s a real risk we might accidentally slide into a full-on word war.”

“like, how exactly?”

“‘cuz we go all out defending the verbal truth that different natures should chase diff hustles, yet we never even defined what ‘sameness’ or ‘difference’ in nature really means, or why we split them up when assigning different gigs versus the same gigs.”

“nah,” he said, “we never even touched on that.”

“imagine this for a sec—if we said there’s a natural diff between bald dudes and hairy dudes, and if we declare bald dudes as cobblers, then wouldn’t we have to ban hairy dudes from being cobblers, and vice versa?”

“that’d be a straight-up joke,” he said.

“yes, i said—a total meme; and why? cuz when we built the state, we never meant for nature’s differences to cover every little thing—only the differences that actually affect the hustle someone’s in. like, a legit doctor and someone who dreams of being a doctor are basically in the same lane.”

“true.”

“but a doctor and a carpenter? totally different vibes.”

“certainly.”

“and if, i said, the male and female vibes seem diff when it comes to any art or hustle, then sure, we could say that hustle should be assigned to one over the other; but if the only diff is that women bear kids and men beget them, that ain’t a legit reason to say a woman deserves a different education—so we’re sticking to the idea that our guardians and their wifeys should roll with the same gigs.”

“deadass, very true,” he said.

“next, let’s ask our opponent: regarding any civic hustle or art, how is a woman’s vibe even different from a man’s?”

“that’s totally fair.”

“and maybe he’ll say that spitting an answer off the bat is hard; but after a lil’ brain grind, it all becomes clear.”

“yeah, maybe.”

“so, let’s invite him to join our convo, and show him there’s literally nothing weird in the makeup of women that would mess with how they run the state.”

“by all means.”

“let’s be real with him: ‘come on, let’s get this—when you talked about someone being naturally gifted or not, did you mean that one dude picks stuff up on fleek while another struggles, or that a bit of study makes one drop mad knowledge while the other forgets ASAP? or did you mean that one dude’s bod is a boss for his mind while another’s just in the way? aren’t these exactly the diff factors that separate the naturally gifted from the non-gifted?’”

“no one can deny that.”

“and can you name any hustle where dudes don’t have these skills on a next-level game compared to chicks? do i really need to drop the deets on weaving, or how ladies totally crush it at whipping up pancakes and preserves—where for a man to outdo a woman would be, like, the most absurd thing ever?”

“you’re right,” he replied, “in saying that generally the female vibe is seen as lower—though plenty of women outshine many men in specific areas, overall your point stands.”

“so, my friend,” i said, “there’s no special state-management perk that a woman gets just ‘cause she’s a woman, or that a man gets just ‘cause he’s a man—the natural gifts are spread out the same in both; every hustle dudes do, women can do too, though, on the whole, a woman might lag behind a man in that game.”

“very true,” he said.

“then are we supposed to force all our rules on dudes and leave women off the hook?”

“that will never do.”

“like, one woman might have mad healing skills while another doesn’t; one might be a dope musician while another’s totally tone-deaf, right?”

“very true.”

“and one woman could slay in gym and military drills while another is totally anti-war and despises gym—facts.”

“certainly.”

“and one woman might be a boss philosopher while another straight-up ghosts philosophy; one’s full of spirit and another is, like, spiritless.”

“that’s also true.”

“so, one lady might have what it takes to be a guardian and another might not. wasn’t the selection of our male guardians based on these kinds of diff traits too?”

“yes.”

“both dudes and chicks have the qualities needed to be guardians—they just differ in how much they flex, capacity-wise.”

“obviously.”

“and the ladies who do have those vibes should be picked to roll as companions and squad-mates with the dudes who match their skills and character, right?”

“very true.”

“and shouldn’t similar vibes be chasing the same gigs?”

“they def should.”

“so, as we were saying before, there’s nothing off about schooling the guardians’ wives in music and gym—so here we are, coming full circle.”

“certainly not.”

“the rules we dropped back then were totally in line with nature, so they weren’t just wishful thinking; and the upside-down way things are done now is basically a violation of nature.”

“that seems totally on point.”

“we had to check two things first: could our proposals even work, and are they actually the best move?”

“yes.”

“and the possibility’s been acknowledged?”

“yes.”

“now next up, we gotta prove that the benefits are hella major.”

“definitely.”

“you gotta admit that the same lit education that turns a dude into a solid guardian will do the same for a chick, since their core vibes are identical, right?”

“yes.”

yo, imma hit u with a question, no cap.

whatchu sayin'?

so, u think all dudes are vibin' on the same level, or is one dude flexin' harder than the rest?

definitely the latter.

and in our lit state buildup, u vibin' that our guardians—trained on that next-level drip model—are total perfect gs, or are they just those basic clowns whose schooling is straight-up DIY?

lol, that question is straight-up clownin', fr.

u already clapped back, i answered: yo, and can we add that our guardians are the ultimate citizens, hands down?

big flex, indeed.

and their wifeys? ain't they gonna be the top-tier babes?

hella yes, def the best.

and is there anything more lit for the state than having all the peeps maxed out on awesomeness?

no cap, nothing's better.

so, our vibes in music and gym time, when done our way, gonna drop that fire, right?

for sure.

so, we just dropped a law that's not only doable but mega boostin' for our state, right?

facts.

then let our guardians' wifeys get lit and drop it like it's hot—their virtue is their swag, ya dig? and let them ride shotgun in the war game and defend our turf; though when it comes to the grind, the lighter loads get handed to the ladies ’cause their vibe’s a bit softer, but overall, they’re on the same hustle. and yo, for any dude clownin' at naked babes breakin' a sweat for the realest reasons, his laugh is like he’s pluckin' some unripe fruit of cringe wisdom—and he’s straight-up clueless about what he’s crackin’ up at, lost in the sauce. real talk, that’s the ultimate tweet: what’s beneficial is pure gold and what’s harmful is mad trash.

real talk.

so check it: here's a glitch in our women-law that we just dodged—the fact that we didn’t get totally yeeted by the wave for sayin’ guardians of both sexes gotta share all their moves. the self-consistency of our argument proves that this setup is both mega useful and on the real possibility tip.

yeah, that was a massive wave, and u totally dodged it, my dude.

i was like, true, but brace yourself—a bigger wave is comin'; u ain't even ready for what’s next.

spill it, fam; lemme peep.

so here’s the next level law: our guardians' wifeys are communal, and their kiddos are too, like full squad-sharing—no one gets to flex as “my kid” or “my man.” it’s all mix-n-match, capiche?

yeah, he was like, that's a way bigger wave, and both the possibility and the perks of that law are hella sus.

i was like, fr, the ups of sharing wifeys and kiddos are lit beyond debate; but whether it's even doable is a whole different meme that’ll spark mad debate.

i reckon there’s a ton of doubts on both counts.

u tryna mix the issues, i replied. i meant, just own up that the benefits are fire; then i could yeet one problem away and just deal with the possibility part later.

lol, but that move was spotted, so now u gotta drop a defense for both.

aight, i admitted, i’m ridin’ with fate. but do me a lil’ solid: let me vibe on a daydream, like those lone dreamers who feast on fantasy while strolling solo; cuz before they figure out any real hack to make wishes come true—which never even bugs 'em—they just assume their ultimate flex is already in the bag and then sketch out all the epic plans for when it finally drops. that way, they don’t even stress too much about stuff that was never that valuable to begin with. ngl, i'm kinda feelin' the burnout, so with your blessing, imma skip the deep dive on possibility for now. assuming our proposal is on fleek possible, imma break down how our boss-level rulers gonna run this show and prove that the plan is the ultimate state upgrade for both the state and our guardians. first up, if u cool with it, lemme flex on the benefits of this move; and then we’ll come back to the possibility question.

i’m down, go off.

first, i think that if our rulers and their ride-or-die crew are gonna live up to that boss label, one squad’s gotta be chill and follow the laws, while the others flex serious command energy. our guardians must not only obey the laws but also mirror that vibe in every tiny deet they handle.

facts, he said.

i told him, u, as our lawmaker, picked the dudes; now u gotta pick the ladies and pair ’em up. they gotta be as similar in vibe as possible, live in shared cribs, and grub together at common meals. nothing’s gonna be just “mine”—they’re all in this together, raised as one squad, even when sweatin' it out at gym time. naturally, their natures will pull 'em into hooking up—“necessity” is the word, though not the math-y kind, but that real, heart-throb need that all lovers know, binding the masses hard.

yeah, he said—necessity, not like geometry, but that fire attraction that even the most basic loves vibe with.

real talk, i said; and this, glaucon, like all the rest, has gotta roll out in an orderly fashion. in our blessed city, all that licentious chaos is strictly banned.

for sure, he said—it absolutely cannot fly.

next up, we gotta make matrimony sacred to the max, turning the ultimate benefits into something holy, right?

exactly.

and how do we level up marriages to be the most beneficial?—i’m askin' cuz i peep your crib, where you got huntin' dogs and some fancy birds on deck. so, spill it: ever peeped how u pair up and breed 'em?

in what like details?

like, first off, even though they’re all dope, aren’t some just extra fire compared to others?

facts.

do u just mix 'em all up, or do u only roll with the top-tier ones?

only the best, obviously.

so, u pick the OGs or the ones who are vibe-ripe?

i only roll with those perfectly aged.

and if u slack on the breeding game, your dogs and birds would totally downgrade, right?

for sure.

and the same goes for horses and all those critters?

no doubt.

omg, fam, i said, imagine the mad skill our rulers gotta have if the same vibe applies to us humans!

for real, same principle holds; but why call for extra skill?

cuz, i said, our rulers are gonna have to flex on the collective body using some serious med moves. u know, when folks just need a chill regimen, a basic doc will do; but when it comes to droppin’ the real meds, the doctor gotta be the ultimate one.

facts, he said; but what’re u gettin’ at?

i meant, i replied, that our rulers will need to dish out a serious dose of slick moves and maybe even a lil’ white lie or two for the crew’s benefit: basically, using all these “medicine” moves can actually be a power play.

and we were bang on.

and this lawfully approved hack will likely be needed big time to keep marriages and baby-making on point.

how so?

cuz, i said, the rule’s already dropped that the top-tier peeps should link up with top-tier peeps as much as possible, and the basic ones with the basic ones as rarely as possible; and only the offspring of the top matches should be raised, if we want our flock to stay first-rate. these moves gotta be kept on the DL by the rulers, or else our whole guardian squad might just flip and riot.

word.

so why not throw down some epic festivals where brides and grooms come together, with dope sacrifices and killer wedding tracks dropped by our poet squad? the number of weddings should be left to the rulers’ discretion—their mission is to keep the population perfectly balanced. plus, they gotta consider other crazy factors like wars, diseases, and all that extra drama to keep our state from getting either too extra or way too chill.

for sure, he replied.

we might have to whip up some ingenious lottery for the less lit ones to draw every time we bring everyone together, so they can just blame bad luck and not the rulers.

true dat, he said.

and i reckon that our baddest and top-tier youngins, aside from racking up honors and rewards, should score some major hookup perks with wifeys; their bravery is a flex, and such dads should be stackin’ sons by the truckload.

facts.

and the legit officer spots, whether dude, chick, or both, gotta be filled by both women and men—

yep—

the proper squad will scoop up the kiddos of top-tier parents to the crib or fold, and drop ‘em off with certified nurses stationed in a separate chill zone; but the offspring of the basic ones—or even of the top ones if they end up deformed—will be shipped off to some mysterious, off-the-grid spot, just as it should be.

for real, he said, that’s a must if we wanna keep our guardian breed pure.

they’ll handle the baby care, rounding up the moms when they’re milked to the max, making sure no mama recognizes her own mini, and if more wet-nurses are needed, they’ll scoop in extra help. they’ll also keep the nursing sesh short and sweet; no crazy night shifts for the moms—the nurses and attendants take care of that drama.

u think our guardians’ wifeys are gonna have it super chill when makin' babies?

exactly, i said, and they should. but yo, let’s roll on with our master plan. we were sayin' that the parents should be in their prime, right?

hella true.

so, what’s prime? can we say it’s like, 20 years for a chick and 30 for a dude?

which ages you chattin' about?

i said, a chick can start droppin’ state kiddos at 20 and keep it goin' until 40; a dude can start at 25—when his life’s vibe is at its peak—and keep begettin’ minis until he hits 55.

for sure, he said, both dudes and chicks rock their prime in those age ranges, full of physical and brainpower vibes.

basically, anyone outside those age brackets jumpin’ into the public wedding vibes is straight-up doin’ something off—an unholy move. and if their kid somehow makes it to life, it’s conceived under vibes totally unlike the legit sacrifices and prayers that every wedding priestess, priest, and the whole city drops, aiming for a new gen that's better and more useful than their solid parents; meanwhile, his kid ends up being all dark and sus.

deadass true, he replied.

and the same law hits anyone in the prime who links up with a prime chick without the rulers' blessing; we’ll straight-up call that guy out for raisin’ a bastard—uncertified and unconsecrated for the state.

so true, he replied.

this rule applies only to folks in that prime range; beyond that, they get free rein—except a dude can’t marry his daughter or his daughter’s daughter, or his mom or his mom’s mom; and a chick can’t marry her son or her dad, or her grandson or her granddad—and so on both ways. plus, we drop strict orders to block any rogue embryos from even seein' the light; and if someone forces a birth, the parents gotta know that the offspring isn’t sustainable and must be sorted out accordingly.

that’s a solid proposition, he said. but how will they even know who’s a dad and who’s a daughter, etc.?

they’ll never really know. here’s the tea: from the day of the wedding bash, the groom from that day will call all the male kiddos born in the 7th and 10th months afterward his sons, and all the female kiddos his daughters. they all call him “dad,” he calls their kids his grandkids, and the elder squad gets dubbed “grandfathers and grandmothers.” everyone born when their parents linked up is treated as siblings—and, like i said, they're banned from marrying each other. but yo, this isn’t a total ban on bro-sis hookups; if the RNG is on their side and they snag the pythian oracle’s blessing, the law lets it slide.

preach, he replied.

that’s the play, glaucon: our guardians are gonna share their wifeys and fams on the communal grind. now, u’d agree that this setup fits solidly with our whole state vibe, and nothing can be a bigger flex than that, right?

def, no cap.

so, how about we find a common ground by askin': what’s the main hustle of a lawmaker when buildin' a state—what’s the ultimate good and the worst evil—and then peep whether our setup is stamped with that good vibe or that evil clout?

bet.

is there any more savage evil than chaos and constant distractions when unity should reign? or any bigger good than that dope bond of unity?

nah, nothing beats that.

and unity’s real when the whole squad shares the same highs and lows—when every citizen is hyped or low-key bummed together over the same joys or sorrows.

facts.

and if everyone’s just livin’ on their own private vibes, the state falls apart—like, half the squad is flexin’ while the other half is stuck in tears over the same city drama.

for sure.

most drama comes from squabbles over what’s “mine” and “not mine,” what’s “his” and “not his.”

preach.

isn’t the ultimate squad thing a state where everyone’s on the same page about “mine” and “not mine” for the same stuff?

no cap, true.

or think of it like the ultimate body: if one dude’s finger gets hurt, the whole squad feels that burn and rallies as one kingdom, showing mad empathy for that part—like we say the man’s got a pain in his finger; and the same goes for every part that feels pain or joy when the hurt chills out.

deadass true, he replied; and i’m with u that in a bomb state, everyone’s on the same vibe.

so when any citizen catches a good vibe or a bad trip, the whole state’s gonna feel it—rejoicing together or getting down together, right?

exactly, he said—that’s the move in a well-ordered state.

alright, i said, now it's time to peep our own state again and see whether this style or some other form totally vibes with these core principles.

mad good.

our state, like any other, got rulers and subjects?

true.

and they all call each other citizens?

of course.

but in other states, don’t peeps call their rulers something else?

usually they call 'em masters, but in democracies, they just say rulers.

and in our state, what extra name do the peeps drop for the rulers besides “citizens?”

they’re hailed as saviours and helpers, he replied.

and what do the rulers call the squad?

their maintainers and foster-dads.

and in other states?

slaves.

and how do rulers refer to one another elsewhere?

as fellow-rulers.

and in our state?

fellow-guardians.

ever peeped a case in another state where a ruler calls one of his homies his friend and another not even his friend?

yeah, all the time.

and the friend’s the one he vibes with, while the other’s just a stranger, zero interest?

exactly.

but would any of our guardians ever call another guardian a stranger?

nah, for sure not; anyone they meet is straight-up treated as a brother or sister, a dad or a mom, a son or a daughter, or as kin connected in some way.

word, i said; but let me ask one more time: will they just be a family in name only, or will they all actually live that fam life? like, when we say “father,” does it mean he cares, commands mad respect, and gets all the duties the law drops on him? and if someone disses that duty, are they gonna be seen as impious, unrighteous, and not get any blessings from god or the squad? is that what every kid is gonna hear on the daily from everyone about who counts as their parents and kin?

that's it, and nothing else; cuz what’s more ridiculous than just spittin’ family names without ever livin’ the fam life?

so in our city, the lingo of harmony and vibe will blast louder than anywhere else. like i said before, whether someone’s chill or wrecked, the universal call will be “i’m good” or “i’m not good.”

mad true.

and if we're on that wavelength, weren't we sayin’ that everyone shares the same highs and lows?

yes, and they'll all be in this together.

and they'll all be vibin' on one common interest that they all call “mine,” and because of that, they’ll share the same feelin' of joy and pain?

yes, way more so than in any other state.

and the big reason for this, beyond just the basic state setup, is that our guardians will have a community of wifeys and kiddos?

exactly—that’s the huge flex.

and this unity of feelin' we already agreed is the ultimate good, like how a well-ordered state is just like a body where every part feels every ache and joy as one?

yeah, totally.

so, the communal setup of wifeys and kiddos among our citizens is clearly the source of the biggest good for our state?

absolutely, no cap.

and this jives with our other rule that our guardians aren’t gonna own cribs or land or any property; their only drip is the food they get from the squad, and they keep zero private expenses—cuz we wanna keep them 100% on that guardian grind.

word, he replied.

both the community of property and the community of families, as i’m saying, make our squad of guardians way more legit; they ain’t gonna tear the city apart over “mine” vs. “not mine” – like, no cap, each bro won’t just yeet his scores into his own crib with his separate bae, kids, and private drama; nah, everyone’s vibing on the same feels about what’s real and precious, so they all pull toward one epic goal.

bet, he replied.

and since these peeps got nothin’ but themselves to call their own, no petty lawsuits or drama will ever pop off between them; they’ll be totally freed from all that beef sparked by cash, kiddos, or fam ties.

fr, of course they will.

plus, there’ll never be any trial for throwing fists or throwing shade among them. cuz, like, equals gotta guard themselves against equals – that's the 100% honor flex; protecting your homie is an absolute must.

lit, he said.

yes; and there’s another sick perk in the law: if one dude catches mad beef with another, he’s gonna drop that resentment right then and there, instead of escalating into some hella dangerous move.

facts.

the older OG gets the duty of ruling and schooling the youngins.

no doubt.

and, like, it’s obvious that the young squad won’t throw hands or do any wild trash on an elder unless the law crew gives the green light; nor will they disrespect their elders in any way. cuz there are two major bouncers – shame, which keeps you from clapping your own parental figures, and fear, that the hurt one will get mad backup from his bros, sons, and dads.

facts, he replied.

then, do our laws help the citizens keep it chill with each other?

yup, there will be zero lack of peace.

and since our guardians are totally squad goals and won’t beef among themselves, there’s no way the rest of the city is gonna split into camps against them or each other.

none.

i don’t even wanna call out the petty bs they’ll dodge – like, the basic flex of the broke peeps flattering the rich, plus all the cringe struggles of raising a fam, hustling for cash to cop the essentials, borrowing then ghosting on repayments, scraping for coin and handing it off to wenches and slaves to hold – all those mad evils are so basic and low-key that they aren’t even worth spilling the tea about.

facts, he said – you don’t even need x‑ray vision to peep that.

and from all that cringe, they’ll be totally freed, living a life as epic as olympic winners – and then some.

how tho?

like, i said, olympic victors are only flexing a slice of the mega blessed life that our citizens score; our peeps have clinched a way more glorious win that saves the whole state, and the crown they rock – passed down to their mini‑mes – is basically the full kit of life’s swag; they snag rewards from the squad while they’re here, and even get an epic send‑off when they dip.

facts, he said – and those rewards are straight‑up glorious.

remember, i said, how earlier some nameless hater accused us of making our guardians salty – they had nothin’ but could’ve had it all – and we clapped back that, if the moment was right, we might chat about it later, but for now we’re all in on turning our guardians into the real mvp’s and building our state for the ultimate happiness of the whole squad, not just a single clique?

facts, i remember.

so, what you say now that the life of our protectors is portrayed as way better and nobler than that of olympic winners – is the grind of shoemakers or any other artisans or even agri hustlers ever gonna compare?

nah, fr.

plus, i gotta rehash what i mentioned before – if any guardian tries to chase a happiness vibe so hard that he bails on his guardian duty, and isn’t down with this safe, harmonious life (which we lowkey believe is the dopest life ever) but instead gets all caught up in some naive hustle of happiness and tries to jack the entire state for himself, then he needs to get woke to hesiod’s drip: “half is more than the whole.”

if he slid into my dms for advice, i’d be like: “bruh, just stay right where you are and soak up this lit life vibe.”

you down with the idea, i said, that dudes and dudettes gotta roll with the same lifestyle we just described—shared education, shared mini‑mes; and they gotta keep an eye on the citizens together, whether chilling in the city or storming off to war; they’re gonna squad up to guard and even hunt like pack pups; and in everything, as long as they can, the ladies are riding with the dudes. by doing that, they’re doing what’s best and keeping it real, preserving the natural balance between the sexes.

yeah, i’m with that, he replied.

i said, the only tea left is – can we actually pull off this squad life among humans like it happens among animals, and if so, how do we even do that?

dang, you already read my mind, he replied.

obviously, i said, there’s zero cap in figuring out how they’ll throw down in war.

how tho?

like, obviously, they’ll roll out on expeditions together and bring along any of their mini‑mes who are strong enough – just like the apprentice vibes where the artisan’s kid peeps at the grind they’ll have to master later; not just watching, but actually helping out in the war and serving their pa and ma. haven’t you peeped how potter’s boys start assisting long before they even hit the wheel?

yup, i gotchu.

and, like, do you think potters are extra careful schooling their kids and letting them peep and practice their hustle more than our guardians will be?

that’s totally bogus, he said.

plus, having your kiddos around gives your parents major inspiration to be all valorous – like in the animal kingdom where the lil’ ones are the ultimate hype for courage.

facts, socrates; but if they get wrecked in war – and that lowkey happens – the danger is real: not only the parents but the kiddos will get caught in the crossfire, and the state might never bounce back.

true, i said; but are you saying they should never take any wild risks?

nah, not at all.

but yo, if they gotta risk it, shouldn’t they do it on a day when, if they dodge a disaster, they’ll come out even stronger?

facts.

like, whether the future soldiers catch a glimpse of war in their youth is mega important – a little risk is totally worth it for that glow‑up.

yup, very important.

so, our first move is to make our kiddos vibe as spectators of war; but we also gotta set them up safe from danger – then everything’s chill.

facts.

their parents aren’t oblivious to the risks of war – they lowkey know, as much as any human can, which missions are safe and which ones are sketchy.

say no more.

and they’ll book the safe missions and be hella cautious with the dangerous ones?

facts.

plus, they’ll put the kiddos under the wing of seasoned vets who’ll be their absolute leaders and mentors.

deadass.

still, we can’t always foresee war’s wild randomness – there’s mad chance in play, no cap.

facts.

so to flex against that randomness, our kiddos gotta be literally fitted with wings, so when the heat is on they can yeet outta danger in a flash.

what kinda wings, tho? he asked.

i mean, we gotta mount them on horses early AF; and once they learn to ride, take ‘em on horseback missions to peep some war vibes. these horses aren’t gonna be wild or extra – they should be chill, super tractable, yet the swiftest rides on the block. this way, the kids get a solid preview of their future grind; and if danger pops off, they just follow their OG leaders and make a clean getaway.

bet, you’re right, he replied.

next up, how should our soldiers treat each other and their foes? i’m thinking that any soldier who bails on his rank, tosses his arms, or shows any sign of straight‑up cowardice should get demoted to a mere peasant or artisan. what do you say?

fr, i’m totally on board.

and the dude who lets himself get captured can straight‑up be handed over as a gift to the enemy squad – he’s basically legit their prey now, so let them do whatever savage moves they wanna do.

facts.

but for the hero who’s been absolutely lit on the battlefield, what do we do? first off, he gets mad honor from his youthful comrades – each one taking turns to crown him as the boss. what d’ya think?

i’m down with that.

and how ‘bout giving him that right-hand-of-fellowship vibe?

yeah, that’s a vibe too, i agree.

but bet you won’t dig my next idea.

what’s your proposal?

i propose that he should be all up in the kissing game – dishing out kisses and getting kissed back.

most definitely. i’d even go further and say: let anyone he’s down to kiss be totally game during the expedition. so if there’s a bae in the army – whether young or maiden – they’ll be extra hyped to bag that valor prize.

legendary, i said. it’s already on record that a brave dude gets more wifey options than the others, plus he gets first dibs so he can rack up mad kids.

bet.

plus, homer says brave youths should get mad honors in another way; like, he drops the story of ajax, who after totally flexing on the battlefield, got rewarded with “long chines” – a shoutout that was totally on point for a hero in his prime, both a badge of honor and a mega power-up.

facts, he said.

so in that vibe, i said, homer’s our ultimate guru; and we too, during sacrifices and similar epic moments, will honor the brave – dudes and dudettes alike – with fire hymns and all those dope distinctions we mentioned; plus with “prime seats, bomb feasts, and overflowing chalices;” and by honoring them, we’re also leveling up their training.

that’s dope, he replied.

yep, i said; and when a dude dies gloriously in war, shouldn’t we first drop that he’s part of the golden squad?

definitely.

nah, but don’t we have hesiod’s word that when they dip, “they’re like holy angels on the earth, authors of good, busters of evil, the guardians of the speech‑gifted” peeps?

facts; and we’re all in on his authority.

we gotta peep the god’s instructions on how to handle the burials of our divine, heroic legends and what special flex they get – and do it all as he commands.

sure thing.

and in the ages ahead, we’ll be out here showing mad respect, kneeling by their tombs like we do at the graves of legends. and not just them – anyone deemed ultra‑good, whether they dip from old age or otherwise, gets the same epic honors.

that’s facts, he said.

next up, how are our soldiers supposed to treat their enemies? what about this?

what exactly are you vibing about?

first off, on the topic of slavery – you think it’s cool for hellenes to enslave other hellenic states or let others enslave them, if they can dodge it? shouldn’t their default be to spare their own, since if they don’t, the whole crew might one day fall under the barbarians’ yoke?

spare ‘em is infinitely better.

so no hellene should ever be owned as a slave; that’s a rule they gotta stick to – and also preach to all fellow hellenes.

facts, he said; that way the squad stays united against the barbarians and they keep their hands off each other.

next, about the fallen – shouldn’t the conquerors only grab their enemy’s armor and nothing extra? like, looting their foe gives a lame excuse to bail on the real fight. softies creep around the dead, pretending they’re on duty, and countless armies have been wrecked by that mad love of plunder.

facts.

and ain’t it super wack and greedy to rob a corpse – plus straight‑up petty and, like, unmanly to mess with the dead when the real enemy already dipped, leaving only his gear behind? it’s like a dog, unable to get at his attacker, barking at the rocks that hit him instead.

totally, like a whole dog vibe, he said.

so we gotta chill with looting the dead or messing with their burial rites, right?

yup, he replied – we absolutely gotta do that.

nor should we sacrifice arms at the temples of the gods – especially not the arms of hellenes – if we wanna keep good vibes with fellow hellenes; plus, we legit gotta worry that handing over spoils snatched from your own fam might cause a major poll unless the god himself gives the nod.

facts.

and again, what’s the move on wrecking hellenic lands or torching houses?

can i get your hot take, he said?

i say both should be totally banned; i’d only snag the annual harvest – and nothing extra. wanna know why?

spill the tea.

check it – there’s a diff in the words “discord” and “war,” and i bet there’s a diff in their vibes too; one’s all about internal, home‑base drama, while the other’s external, foreign beef. so we call the internal mess discord, and only label the external clash as war.

that's a proper diff, he replied.

and can i also note that the hellenic squad is totally united by blood and friendship, and is super alien to those barbarians?

mad good, he said.

so when hellenes throw down with barbarians (or vice versa), we label that as war – natural enemies through and through; but when hellenes clash with each other, we’re just looking at mad disorder and discord, cuz they’re naturally pals – so that beef gets called discord.

i'm with that.

so, think about it, i said, when that recognized discord goes down and a city gets split – if both sides trash each other’s lands and torch each other’s cribs, how trash does that strife look! no true country bae would ever tear into his own nurturer and home; maybe a conqueror can cut off the crops of the conquered, but deep down, they’d still keep that peace vibe and wouldn’t be about endless fighting.

facts, he said – that’s a way cooler mood than the other.

and won’t the city you’re founding be a hellenic city?

it def should be, he replied.

then the citizens are gonna be mad civilized, right?

yeah, super civilized.

and won’t they be full‑on hellas lovers, considering hellas as their crib and sharing the common temples?

most definitely.

and any beef that pops off among them will just be seen as discord – like a squabble between besties, not a legit war?

def not.

so they’ll squabble like they’re planning a future makeup sesh?

for sure.

they’ll keep it to friendly corrections without turning foes into slaves or wrecking their rivals; they’re like menders, not mortal enemies.

exactly.

and since they're all hellenes, they won’t wreck hellas, torch cribs, or assume that every single person in a city – dudes, dudettes, and kiddos – is automatically an enemy. they get that the guilt of war only sticks to a few, while the many are pure homies. so they won’t waste their lands or raze their houses; their beef lasts only until the many innocent peeps force the guilty few to cough up some reparation.

i’m with that, he said – our citizens should handle their hellenic foes just like that, and face barbarians the same way hellenes settle among themselves.

so let’s make it law for our guardians too: they ain’t allowed to wreck hellenic lands or torch their cribs.

agreed; and we can be like “facts, these are as lit as all our previous laws.”

but still, socrates, i gotta say that if you keep vibing like this, you’ll totally forget the big question you dropped at the start: is such an order even possible, and if so, how? i’m more than ready to admit that your plan – if it’s even doable – would do mad good for the state. plus, let’s not forget that your citizens would be the bravest warriors ever, never ditching their ranks ‘cause they all know each other so tight that each one calls the other father, brother, son; and if you throw the ladies into the mix – whether in the frontline or in backup, either to terrorize the enemy or as extra help when needed – they’d be absolutely invincible; and there are a ton of homegrown perks i fully ack, but if your state drops, we don’t even need to spill more tea on that. so, assuming your state is a real deal, let’s now get into the nitty‑gritty of possibility and ways and means – the rest can chill.

if i even chill for a sec, you immediately launch a full‑on raid on me, i said, showing zero mercy; i barely dodged the first and second waves, and now you’re dropping the third – which is the heaviest and most savage yet. when you catch the third wave, i bet you'll be like, “okay, maybe there’s some legit fear and hesitation, since this proposal is straight‑up extra.”

the more of these wild appeals you drop, he said, the more we’re locked in on getting you to spill how such a state can even exist – so speak up, now.

let me kick it off by reminding you that we got here while on the hunt for what’s just and unjust.

true, he replied; but so what?

i was just gonna ask: now that we’ve peeped the ideals, do we expect the just dude to be 100% flawless in absolute justice, or is it cool if he just levels up in justice more than the average joe?

approximation’s aight.

we were lowkey exploring the nature of absolute justice and the vibe of the perfectly just, and digging into injustice and the perfectly unjust, so we could have that ideal flex. we checked them out to see if our own happiness stacks up to that benchmark, not to prove they actually exist, but just as our ultimate vibe.

facts, he said.

would a painter be any less dope if, after crafting a sick ideal of a drop‑dead gorgeous dude, he couldn’t prove that such a guy ever existed?

nah, he’d still be fire.

and weren’t we just crafting our ideal perfect state?

for sure.

and is our theory any less lit just ’cause we can’t prove a city can actually be set up like that?

surely not, he replied.

that legit is facts, i said. but if, as you requested, i'm gonna try and flex on how and under what conditions the chance is off the charts, i gotta ask you—keeping all this in mind—to drop your old receipts.

what receipts?

i wanna know: do ideals ever hit 100% in our language? like, does a word not try to spill way more tea than just the bare fact, and doesn’t the real deal—whatever a dude thinks—even always fall a bit short of the truth? what’s your take?

i stan.

then you can’t make a mad flex that the actual state’s gonna match the ideal in every single drip: if we can only peep how a city might run almost as tight as we envisioned, you’ll have to vibe that we’ve shown the possibility you’re demanding—and be cool with that. i’m 100% sure i’d be chill—right?

yes, i will.

let me now drop some next-level wisdom on what’s wrong with states that got them stuck in sus admin mode, and what’s the tiniest tweak that can level up a state into a truer vibe; and let that tweak, if possible, be just one thing only, or if not, maybe two—basically, keep the changes super minimal.

certainly, he replied.

i think, i said, that a state could be reformed with just one single change. it ain’t exactly an easy flex, but it’s def within the realm of possibility.

"what is it?" he said.

now then, i said, i'm about to go face what i call the ultimate wave—yet my word will drop regardless, even if that wave yeets me into a fit of laughter and total dishonor; so bookmark my words.

proceed.

i said: "until philosophers are kings, or until the kings and princes of this world get that philosophy drip—when political epicness and wisdom squad up as one, and all those basic peeps who chase one vibe to the exclusion of the other get benched—cities will never catch a break from their crunk evils, nor will humanity (in my humble opinion), and only then can our state even hope to glow up and catch some real light." that was the vibe i wanted to drop, my dear glaucon—a vibe i would’ve unleashed if it hadn’t felt way too extra; because to be convinced that no other state can ever serve happiness, whether on the low-key or in the spotlight, is a tall order.

"socrates, what are you even saying?" you gotta peep that the word you just dropped is one that a ton of folks—not to mention hella respectable ones—will literally rip off their coats in a hot minute and snatch up any weapon lying around, coming at you full send before you even know what hit you; and if you don’t come back with a savage clapback and get movin’, you’ll be “pared by their fine wits,” no cap.

you got me into this mess, i said.

and i was dead-on; but i'll do all i can to pull you out of that hot mess. i can only hand you the best vibes and solid advice—and maybe, just maybe, drop answers to your questions better than anyone else. that’s all. and now, with that wingman vibe, you gotta show all the haters that you’re absolutely right.

i should give it a go, i said, since you’re handing me some truly invaluable assists. and i think if we’re gonna bust out of this one alive, we gotta break down exactly who we mean when we say that philosophers are gonna run the state; only then can we hold our ground. there’ll be peeps meant to dive deep into philosophy and lead the state, and others who weren’t born to be deep thinkers—who are meant to ride as followers rather than be on that leader grind.

"now, hit me with a definition," he said.

follow me, i said, and i hope that i can slide you a satisfactory breakdown.

proceed.

i bet you remember—so i won’t be extra boring—that a true lover (if he even deserves that tag) should flex his love not just for one little bit of what he’s into, but for the whole epic package.

i’m, like, seriously confused here, so help refill my memory.

someone else, i said, might drop the same lines you just did; but a dude who’s all about good times like you oughta know that all the young, fresh-outta-the-oven peeps somehow light a spark in a lover’s chest and are deemed worthy of his mad affection. isn’t that just how you roll with the cuties: one might rock a snub nose and you hype his charming mug; another’s hook-nosed gets called regal; while a dude with neither snag gets props for being solidly regular—dark visages are manly, the fair are basically children of the gods; and as for those dubbed “honey pale,” what’s in a name but a lover’s playful flex? in a word, there’s absolutely no excuse or twist you won’t drop just to keep every blooming flower of youth in your squad.

if you crown me as the ultimate authority on love matters—just for debate’s sake, i’m down.

and what about wine lovers? don’t you see them acting the same? they’re always hyped for any excuse to get lit on wine.

lit.

and same goes for ambitious peeps; if they can’t boss an army, they’re cool with leading a small squad; and if they can’t score respect from the top-tier, they’ll be stoked to get props from the underdogs—but they gotta have some type of honor, nonetheless.

exactly.

once more, let me ask: does a dude who craves any kind of goods really want the whole collection, or just a snippet?

the whole collection, obviously.

and can we call a philosopher a lover who’s into not just a slice of wisdom, but the entire wisdom buffet?

yes, the whole shebang.

and what about someone who disses learning—especially as a young buck who’s not yet got the chill to tell what’s good and what’s not? such a dude, we’d say, ain’t a philosopher or a true knowledge bae—just like someone who skips their grub isn’t really hungry, and can be seen as having a weak appetite instead of a solid one.

deadass true, he said.

but what about a dude who’s down for every drop of knowledge, always curious, never satisfied—can we call that beast a philosopher? am i right?

glaucon said: if being curious makes you a philosopher, then a whole lotta weirdos will sport that tag. every single one of those who are all about pretty sights gets a kick from learning, so they all gotta be in the mix. even music fanboys are hella out of place among philosophers—they’re the last ones on earth to jump into a deep convo, especially when they’re busy vibing hard at the dionysiac festivals like they just dropped their headphones; whether the rager’s in the city or the sticks makes zero diff—they’re there. so, are we really supposed to say that all these peeps—and all who have similar tastes, plus even the low-key art professors—are legit philosophers?

certainly not, i replied; they’re just playin’ at it.

he said: then who are the true, certified philosophers?

those, i said, who are absolutely all about that vision of truth.

that’s mad fire, he said; but i wanna know—what exactly are you vibing on?

to be honest, i replied, it might be tough to break down fully for someone else; but i’m sure you’ll buy into the proposition i’m about to drop.

what’s the proposition?

that since beauty is the straight-up opposite of ugliness, they’re like two sides of the same coin?

definitely.

and since they roll in pairs, each one is like a single epic drop?

true again.

and the same applies to just vs. unjust, good vs. evil, and every other pairing: taken solo, each is a singular vibe; but once they mix with actions, with things, and with each other, they flash up in all sorts of wild ways?

very true.

and that’s exactly the diff i’m drawing between the squad that’s all in for sights, art, and practical living and the ones i’m chatting about—only these real ones deserve the philosopher title.

"how do you even split them up?" he said.

the peeps who are all about vibing on sounds and sights, i replied, are, in my opinion, hooked on fine tones, colors, shapes, and every flashy product made of them—but their minds just can’t level up to see or feel pure, absolute beauty.

true, he replied.

only a few manage to catch that full-on drip.

very true.

and what about a dude who can peep beautiful vibes in regular stuff but can’t catch that absolute beauty— or if someone tries to school him on the real beauty vibe, he just can’t keep up—is that guy awake, or is he still lost in a wild dream? think on it: isn’t a dreamer, whether sleeping or half-awake, the one who starts mixing up totally different things, swapping a lame copy for the real deal?

i’d totally say that dude is straight-up snoozing.

but flip it: consider the guy who knows straight-up that absolute beauty exists, who can tell the idea apart from all the basic copies that try to ride its coattails—who never swaps the idea for a random object or vice versa—is he still dreaming, or is he wide awake?

he’s wide awake, bro.

and can we say that the mind of the one who really gets it has genuine knowledge, while the mind of the one who’s just tossing out opinions only has, well, opinion?

certainly.

but suppose the opinion-only dude starts clashing with us over our facts—can we drop some smooth, calming advice on him without making it obvious that his brain’s kinda glitched out?

we absolutely gotta serve him some top-tier advice, he replied.

come on, then, let’s brainstorm what to say. should we kick it off by saying he’s welcome to any knowledge he’s got and that we’re stoked he holds it? but then we gotta ask him a big question: does a dude with knowledge actually know something, or does he know nothing? (you gotta answer for him.)

i’m sayin’ he knows something.

something that is, or something that ain’t?

something that is; ‘cause how could somethin’ that ain’t ever be known?

and are we 100% sure—after peepin’ it from a bajillion angles—that absolute being is or can be known for real, while the total non-existent is as unknown as, like, a lost meme?

nothing’s more solid, no cap.

good. but if there's something that kinda exists and kinda doesn’t, and sits in that chill zone between pure being and complete nothingness?

yeah, right in between.

and since knowledge is all about being, and ignorance is basically the flip side (not-being), then for that in-between zone there’s gotta be a matching in-between between total ignorance and head-on knowledge, right?

certainly.

do we even admit that opinion exists?

undoubtedly.

is opinion just a carbon copy of knowledge, or is it another power in its own right?

definitely another faculty, no cap.

so, opinion and knowledge vibe with totally different kinds of content ‘cause they come from different mental flexes?

yes.

and knowledge’s got its game tied to being—it’s all about knowing being. but before i dive deeper, imma break things down a bit.

what split?

i’m gonna set faculties apart in their own squad: they’re the inherent powers in us (and in all things) that make us do what we do. like, sight and hearing—i’d call those faculties. did i drop a clear squad breakdown?

yes, i get it.

then here’s my take on them: i don’t literally “see” these powers; so the diff in shapes, colors, and all that jazz, which lets me spot differences in some stuff, doesn’t even apply. when i talk about a faculty, i’m only thinking about its turf and its endgame; and if two things share the same turf and output, i call ‘em the same faculty—but if they hit different zones or results, then they’re on diff teams. that sound right?

yup.

and can you do me one more solid? would you say knowledge is a faculty, or what squad does it even belong to?

definitely, knowledge is a faculty, and honestly, it’s the mightiest one out there.

and what about opinion—does that count as a faculty too?

definitely, he said; ‘cause opinion is the tool we use to form opinions.

but didn’t you just admit a minute ago that knowledge isn’t the same as opinion?

true, he said: how could any logical being ever mix up the infallible with the error-prone?

solid answer, i said, proving we’re well aware of the diff.

yes.

so if knowledge and opinion have their own distinct powers, they must have different turf or subject-matters too, right?

that's a given.

being is the turf of knowledge, and knowledge is all about knowing what being is, correct?

yes.

and opinion is just about having a hot take?

yes.

and do we even know what we’re opining about? or does the subject-matter of opinion match that of knowledge?

nah, he replied, that’s been debunked already; if a diff in mental flex means diff turf, and since, as we said, opinion and knowledge are separate faculties, then their subject zones can’t be the same.

so if being is the subject of knowledge, then opinion’s subject gotta be something else?

yes, something else.

well then, isn’t it that not-being is the subject of opinion? or, like, how can there even be an opinion about not-being? think: when a dude’s dropping an opinion, isn’t he always talking about something? can he just have an opinion about straight-up nothing?

impossible.

if you got an opinion, it’s always on something, right?

yes.

and not-being isn’t just one thing, it’s literally nothing, basically?

true.

for not-being, we assume ignorance is its built-in sidekick; for being, it’s knowledge.

true, he said.

so then opinion isn’t really about either being or not-being?

not about either.

and can it therefore be neither pure ignorance nor full-on knowledge?

that seems to be the case.

but is opinion meant to be chased as something beyond both—somewhere brighter than pure ignorance but not as lit as full knowledge—or the opposite?

neither.

i guess that means opinion comes off darker than knowledge yet lighter than pure ignorance?

both—that’s exactly it, and to a pretty solid degree.

and it’s like, nested right between and inside both?

yes.

then you'd say opinion is totally that in-between, intermediate state?

no question.

but didn’t we say earlier that if something seems to be both “on” and “off” at the same time, it’s naturally stuck in the zone between pure being and absolute non-being—and that the corresponding mental flex is neither full-on knowledge nor total ignorance, but rather smack in the middle?

true.

and in that smack-in-the-middle zone, we discovered something we call opinion?

yep.

so what’s left to uncover is the object that flexes both being and not-being equally—and can’t really be tagged as either, plain and simple; this mystery term, when we finally decode it, we can call the subject of opinion, and assign each thing to its proper faculty—the extremes to the extreme faculties and the average to the mid-grade faculty.

true.

with all that set, i wanna ask the opinion-homie—who claims there’s no fixed, unchangeable concept of beauty (for him, the beautiful is just a hot-mess mashup)—i’m talkin’ to you, the lover of dope sights, who just can’t handle being told that beautiful is one, or that just is one, or that anything is one: would you kindly, sir, break it down for us and tell if among all these bomb beauties there’s one that never turns ugly; or among all that’s just, is there one that never drips off as unjust; or among the sacred, is there one that isn’t also, like, unholy?

"nah," he replied; "the beautiful will, from some angle, come off as ugly; and honestly, same goes for the rest."

and can’t the many things that are doubles sometimes be seen as halves too? like, doubles of one vibe and halves of another?

straight up true.

and labels like great and small, heavy and light—do these labels even lock down these things any more than their opposites do?

true; both these labels and their opposites always stick with them.

and can any one of those many things, which we call by their own special names, be pinned down as strictly one thing rather than not that thing?

he replied: they're like those pun-filled riddles you hear at feasts or the kids’ puzzle about the eunuch tryna hit a bat—with what he smacked it, as the riddle goes, and what the bat was chillin’ on. the individual objects i'm droppin’ are riddles too, with double meanings: you can’t lock ’em in your brain as simply being or not-being, or both, or neither.

then what are you gonna do with these? i asked. can they even have a spot that’s better than being stuck between being and non-being? because, clearly, they’re not in deeper darkness or total negation than non-being, nor are they more aglow with existence than being.

that’s totally true, he said.

so it seems we’ve peeped that the numerous ideas the crowd’s tossing around about the beautiful, and about literally everything else, are just swirling in that zone that’s halfway between pure being and pure non-being?

we have.

yes; and earlier, we agreed that anything like this is to be labeled as matter of opinion—not matter of solid knowledge; it’s that intermediate flow caught by the mid-grade faculty.

deadass true.

then those who peep a bunch of beautiful things, yet can’t catch absolute beauty—or can’t follow any guide that shows the way to it; who see many “just” moments instead of pure justice, and the like—these folks, we say, only have opinions and not real knowledge.

that's for sure.

but those who can see the absolute, eternal, and unchangeable? they can be said to actually know, not just be throwing around opinions, right?

no doubt on that.

the ones who vibe hard and embrace the subjects of true knowledge, versus those who only dish out opinions—aren’t the latter basically the same peeps who jam to sweet tunes and check out pretty colors, but would never stomach the idea of absolute beauty?

yes, i remember that.

so, are we off-base calling these folks “lovers of opinion” instead of “lovers of wisdom,” and will they flip out on us for droppin’ that label?

i’ll tell ‘em not to catch heat; no dude should get mad at what’s 100% true.

but those who are into truth in every single thing should be tagged as lovers of wisdom—not just opinion.

assuredly.
